Yeah. I can hear you just fine. Hi, I'm gonna leave my camera off because I've been having some Wi-Fi struggles. So I'm just gonna cut down on the band with a little bit. So plus I have like my allergies are killing me and so my face is all red and puffy and gross so 
Right, so we'll start with fisheries and aquaculture then when you think about those areas, what are some of the benefits potentially or changes to the ecosystem in the Gulf of Mexico? That might be changed by offshore wind. 
well, I mean, I definitely think there's um some pros and cons here Associated, you know, particularly with the fishing but fishing and aquaculture and you know, so far some of the feedback and questions I've gotten from my community are you know, kind of go both directions. I mean, I think you know from a benefits side, you know, particularly in the Gulf of Mexico. There's a lot of interest as we're seeing, you know, oil and gas structures come down in the gulf and concerns over loss of habitat, you know, and and artificial reefs. There's a lot of interest in the fishing community over the potential for you know wind energy to actually be replacing some of that habitat. That's disappearing from oil and gas and you know, I think Where somewhat unique in the gulf and that, you know, our fishermen have had a relationship with oil and gas for a long time. And so, you know, I think they do feel like they've been engaged in the process so far to some degree, um, you know, as is often the challenge with the fishing industry, even if you reach out it doesn't mean that everyone's getting the message either right? It's a very challenging Community across the board to reach their you know, a lot of times language barriers and other issues that you know, it takes a lot 
right 
to get you know, the message truly out to to the full fishing Community, but so it's mixed I think there's a lot of positive from that perspective, but there is a lot of Concern expressed also about the potential loss of fishing grounds and what that's going to mean for some Fisheries particularly the shrimp fishery being a bottom trawl fishery and what that means for for them on that front. So, um, A little bit of a mixed bag. I mean, I I think you know, if positive conversations and the right conversations can be had I think there's benefits for looking at you know, dual purpose of of structures. I know that's been a long conversation with oil and gas related to you know, previous platforms and there have been some challenges on that front. But you know, I think it does still pose opportunity for aquaculture and how some of that sighting can be, you know co-sided with offshore wind energy potentially as well. So yeah, definitely a lot to talk about with the fishing community and offshore wind. 
Yeah, for sure thinking about the fishing Community as you've described it. Would you break that down at all like commercial recreational by gear type? You mentioned the aquaculture potentially being out on the filings. 
Yeah, I mean. so I think it's more by species than by recreational or commercial in terms of how The need for interaction is on this topic, you know, I think it really does stem from you know, the actual species and type, you know, so refresh. I think definitely, you know, whether it's recreational for higher commercial, you know all have a different interest in this then some of the other fishery is who, you know don't necessarily feel like they're seeing a direct benefit and our potentially seeing, you know losses loss of access to area so, you know 
right 
more of a species engagement. Um, and how those folks are going to be interacting. And experiencing, you know offshore wind. 
Yeah, that makes sense. Trying to think of a few you've mentioned a few of the how this is actually going to play out between the fishery and where the turbines are. Are there any more you've mentioned where they go the gear types that might interact well or not, so well with the turbines and fishing grounds that might be impacted. Are there any other sort of meetings of interactions that we should be thinking about or spaces that are especially important? 
um, so You know, I think there's been a lot of discussion around transmission lines. And you know what the requirements are going to be for. You know how far those are gonna be buried, you know similar to existing oil and gas, you know, there are requirements to bury them out to a certain area right the shrimp Fishery. You know operates out to you know, 50 even a little more than that fathoms, you know about 300 feet, right? So, you know anything before that they're going to be interacting with those transmission lines. So there's been a lot of concern expressed about You know the physical interaction with them, but additionally there's a lot of concerns still and there that would explain that leads to some of the hesitancy of some of the other Fisheries as well in terms of what the impact of those transmission lines are, right. There's been you know, some some information out there about disruption and you know, those those transmission lines are putting out, you know home or a buzz, right? So that is they're going to be an issue associated with any sort of magnetic type disruptions things along those lines and whether or not burying those cables to a certain degree is going to have any mitigation on that whether that be heat discharge or you know other other potential disrupters, so that that's come up a lot particularly and surprisingly enough from the fishing Community because of turtles. So even though Turtles are not something they're for it is such an active concern and they have so many mitigation measures themselves for turtles that Turtles is often a conversation that they bring up. They don't want to see a situation where you know, we start seeing Turtle Decline and then the fishery ends up with more restrictions to try to fix it. 
Sure. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. 
Mmm, so I think that um, you know, it's the transmission lines the you know, potential sensory disruption type activity. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I I do hear a lot questions about you know, whether or not they can really be pushed out to further depths that they're kind of out of fishing range. And so that we're not sort of losing fishing bottom for key Fisheries, but you know, I mean, I know y'all have done a great job in terms of a lot of the effort mapping for Fisheries already to try to mitigate that to the best extent for the time being I think the bigger concern is that even if these early sites in the Gulf are not significantly. Disruptive to fishing that you know, if it's successful it's gonna be everywhere and so it's not the immediate concern of the immediate proposed sites or the one that's you know, now moving forward. It's more. Well, what does this look like 10 15 years from now once it is good and everybody decides they want more lease around right? 
right 
It's it's fear of the future. 
Yeah, yeah, the timing aspects it's definitely something to consider. 
Yes. 
At the very beginning of this conversation you started talking about offshore oil and gas oil and natural gas hoof. Structure coming down and potentially being replaced by the wind turbines. Can you delve a little bit more into the relationship between natural gas and oil the two facets of the energy industry and how that might play out. 
Um sure you just made it in terms of what that existing relationship has been with fishing communities. And what's 
Yeah, existing relationship or how you might think it might change moving forward. If it's a sure thing that the oil structures are coming down and the wind is going up. Those sorts of questions. 
Well, yeah, I mean, I think it's become. You know for and I don't do a heavy amount of work really in you know, artificial reef and rigs to Reef type programs. I know some of the details and I you know, certainly work with some folks who are far more knowledgeable about it than I am but it's expensive to convert a platform to an artificial Reef most oil and gas companies. Seem to be taking the track when they have to decommission of you know going they're out of just pulling it out to the extent required by law in less. They have a significant amount of like support and funding and effort to turn it into an artificial Reef, you know, and so I mean, they're required to remove once once they deep once those platforms are decommissioned. And so there's there's a really high number of platforms that are coming offline or have come offline in recent years and not not enough resources funding money to turn those things into artificial restructures. And so there's a lot of concern about that loss of habitat. Now, they've been there forever. They are, you know, huge habitat areas for reef fish in the golf with a lot of populations that are already, you know, struggling or in recovery, you know, we've seen Lot of challenges with many of the species in the reef fish complex over the last few years. We've got red snapper, of course the never-ending battle in the Gulf which you know, I mean, I feel like we could stock red snapper every year and still always end up in battles, right? There's just never that fish to go around. So any idea about a loss of habitat is very concerning to fisherman on that front. 
That makes sense. Alright, I think we've delved into this but thinking outside of fisheries and Haku culture and your primary area of expertise. What else do you think about the ecosystem of the Gulf of Mexico might change as a result of offshore wind development? 
You know, I mean any time you put Norton new structure in you're going to deal with behavior change and not necessarily just from those, you know, refish dominant species. So it's certainly is a potential for all of our species and we have a lot of migratory species in the Gulf our Coastal Coastal projects to our highly migratory species whales and dolphins species, you know, I mean, I I think it's it runs the potential to affect any any of the species in the gulf and and what those use patterns look like we're gonna see, you know, different shipping activities all sorts of things that are likely to change behavior. And so, you know, I think there's you know, some constant monitoring that's gonna be needed to really understand what those Just look like because that's going to be different in every environment that you put these types of structures in. 
Okay. 
You know, we mentioned Turtles even though that's not a direct fishery. One of the other things surprisingly again that we hear from fishermen, but has been raised in a lot of meetings his Birds, you know, Texas in particular. We are the highest migratory pathway for for bird species in the US and you would think that that'd be a question that's been answered since we are also the highest win producing energy state in the US as far as land when structures go, but it is often a 
Yeah. 
constant discussion point and I think of particularly more concern from a from an offshore perspective because a lot of those birds are crossing a significant area before coming to reach land in Texas and having those points out there maybe a more attractive point to them if they're you know coming from Respondent long journey waiting to hit land or they hit whether or something along those lines that delays those initial fallouts that we see and like self, Texas Other areas when birds are our first reaching the area, you know shrimpers shrimpers constant. I get birds I get pictures of birds from shrimpers all the time that land on their vessels out there. I always a picture of a brown booby the other day on a shrimp boat. 
cool 
Yeah, yeah, so, you know after the the big storm that blew over from the from the Pacific across. And you know it throws some things off track. So it is something really common. They see birds landing on their vessels all the time. So, you know, it's it's definitely gonna be an interaction point of concern. So from an ecosystem standpoint, I mean, you know, I think 
Yeah. 
that kind of covers. It's 
That makes sense question about the land wind in Texas how much interplay 
mmm 
or interaction or Lessons Learned do you think people are taking from what's already there on the land? 
Um, I can't say directly from some of the companies that may be engaged in discussion and conversation about it from a stakeholder perspective. Um, it's like very little they they seem to be too very separate worlds with two very separate issues. And you know, even the folks that are okay with them on land here are still expressing concerns about putting them offshore, I think. You know, they're just they're probably two different populations of people in terms of the ones that are being impacted by them or experiencing them. Regularly. I mean in Texas for the most part, you've got Inland landowners agriculture ranches things along those lines are not necessarily, you know integrated with Coastal populations of fishermen and things like that, so, You know, I think there's probably lessons that can be taken from Land particularly the bird issue for example, right? But right now like I don't even know where to look for those Resources with respect to like what's going on in you know, in land-based wind energy. Like I don't know where to go find that information. I'm sure it's something that's been dealt with but you know even having access or like knowing where to look for some of that information to kind of make some of those parallels would be helpful. 
interesting All right, my last question thinking about all the different potential changes we've talked about what potential management actions might be able to affect those relationships. These don't have to be realistic either. They can be Pie in the Sky. 
Sure. Sure. So I mean I know that you know on the this first set of leases that went up for auction that there was. The discussion about a Fisheries fund right? And that was that was made as an option that could could be put in by the company but not as a requirement. It is something that is essentially a requirement on the oil and gas side that fishermen, you know that that companies are responsible for so, you know while it's been considered and discussed and I know that there's always challenges and setting something like that up, I think. Having something like that as a stronger kind of recruitment requirement or commitment because it is something that you know, when everything is shiny and new and and you know, everything's perfect like right out of the gate but there's maintenance There's issues. 
right 
These things are gonna be out there for a long time and there's likely to be impacts down the road as well. So I mean, I think continuing to look at that and find some more ways to have a robust kind of compensation or mitigation program and just more broadly, you know, obviously I think you know, it's already been talked about that their needs to be a lot of continued monitoring but you know the likelihood that there's gonna be some form of medication is significant and so contributing to some sort of a potent. Mitigation fund early on so that you know, there's a quick response for anything that that does occur. I think you know is is important. I you know, I have mixed feelings about fishermen Representatives that has not gone well in some other regions and some other areas of people who Have felt they have contributed and not been heard and they're just a placeholder to make it look like they're being considered. So I think it's key to have their input constantly at the table. I don't know how you do it in a way that they don't feel like they're suggestions are not being honored in that process. So I you know, that's a tough one. I think it's an important one to keep keep working on. And I think you know how just having some place that you know, we know that there's ongoing and updated 
Good. 
information that's easily accessible about what is happening and when you know, I know a lot of this is private company. stuff, you know, so that makes it harder too like once elise's is is 
I 
But then, you know, it's up to that company, but everybody's sort of twiddling their thumbs trying to figure out what's going on now, right? Like are we gonna see development in the next year and the next two years not until 10 years from now, you know, how do we get information updated from you know from the companies once they have these leases on what activities gonna happen in a way that you know is gonna Reach the the community that's out on the water. 
make sense Alright, those were all of our official questions. So now I'll pass it over to you if you have anything else that is bopping around in your head that you wanted to add along. these veins of thinking 
Sure, um, you know, I think there's you the questions were very like environment ecosystem side and you know, so but from a human Dimension side and a People side. Particularly in Louisiana and Texas. We don't have that same sort of Coastline structure that you see in a lot of places which is high value vacation homes things along those lines very like high dollar coastlines. We have a lot of rural coastlines. We have a lot of Economically challenged, you know counties and parishes throughout our coasts in our two states. I think there's a lot of opportunity, you know out of this as well. I think there's also probably opportunity for you know, um folks that work in both Industries, you know Fisheries have at times or seasonal you see that a lot in Louisiana fishermen that go back and forth between oil and gas industry and fishing industry you what are opportunities for fishermen, what are opportunities for fishermen who are regularly out there with respect to some of them monitoring and the and the science, you know, I think there's a better way to integrate some of the communities and some of the people that are already working on the water to help make our Coastal communities more economically resilient. Um, and you know really thinking about what that infrastructure looks like coming onto Shore where it's placed. You know, how is it benefiting some of those communities and you know, making sure that we're not detrimentally developing infrastructure along our coastlines as well and some of the areas that are less populated. 
right that makes a lot of sense. Have you just out of curiosity have you heard? I guess it has to do with the cabling but are they eyeing kind of the whole coast of Texas or our certain communities sort of rising to the surface as this is most likely where they're going to be most affected. 
I mean so in Texas, you know, the the conversation is largely been based here on the upper Coast for the moment. That's kind of that big sighting area and you know, Texas that's one of the weird things right? We are the highest producing wind energy State we are, you know, a huge energy producer across the board there's interest to some degree from you know, some of the energy companies but there's political opposition which essentially is my understanding of why that lease opportunity went without a bid was that they're still political power kind of threatening to not allow transmission lines through state waters, you know, so there are some concerns there are concerns and communities. I don't know. Although behind the scenes. I'm told some of that is oil and gas feeling you know, threatened or pushed out of certain ports and areas and so, you know how we do a better balance of you know, addressing the needs of an area so that you know, all the stakeholders are engaged. It was kind of a weird one, right? We had a lot of fish in the fishermen actually hosted their own meeting a year ago, you know, boom and several other folks. CEO that yeah see gran and several others kind of helped them put that together, but you know, they wanted to engage and then all of a sudden they're actually disappointed that you know, the Galveston site is the one that got cut out. 
right 
If so, it's You know, it's it's bigger than just what just at the base level, you know, Coastal people or fisherman, you know our experiencing. 
right 
There's definitely some higher level interests. That seem to not be on the same page about it here in Texas. 
makes sense sadly 
yeah, yeah, and you know, I mean from that perspective I think you know, there's a lot of there's a lot of challenge for water bottoms here right and oil and gas, you know have always sort of had precedence, you know, they they tend to get first pick of things. It's been an issue with our oyster aquaculture industry. Right? Like we for oyster aquaculture need to cite at least 100 feet away from oil and gas but oil and gas in turn is not required to be a hundred a thousand feet away from an existing Aquaculture farm. So if I cite a farm and I've got a 10 year lease and within that 10 years oil and gas comes in plots next to me when I go to renew. I'm the one that's gonna lose my lease like oh yes has a lot of power 
Oh. 
in Texas a lot of power and you know, despite all The efforts and frustrations during the setup and Regulatory process like that. That's basically how our land office saw it. They were like, yep, you know, we're our number one priorities oil and gas like you know, this is this is as good as it's gonna get for you. So there are powers that be 
Yeah. 
and they're not always equal. 
All right. Those are all my questions will do you have any clarifications on your modeling efforts? 
Now there was there was a ton here. I'm I'm pretty set on my end. So yeah, Respondent and muscles anything else that's rattling around in your head that you didn't get a chance to share. I think that can end up the formal part of what we were. asking 
Okay, great. And you see Grant we have an offshore windley is on. I don't know if you've talked 
