Is advocacy it seems what have you heard are or what do you think some of the benefits or drawbacks might be to the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem as a result of offshore wind development? 
benefits and drawbacks 
to the communities 
Yeah. yeah, well, I think you know climate change is the biggest threat facing both the planet and the Gulf of Mexico I would say and so, you know anything we can do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions including through offshore wind will significantly benefit the the Gulf of Mexico including you know, warmer waters, you know that are impacting the ecosystems and Wildlife and then certainly, you know, more powerful storms and other things that are impacting certainly the coastal areas and you know, potentially then could also benefits could I don't know if you're including kind of coastal areas as well, but, you know reduced emissions from you know, refineries Etc, you know, if we're able to you know displace, you know, some of the demand for oil with, you know, greater use of offshore wind and then yeah draw back. Think there are potential. risks with you know impacts to birds, you know from there's you know, potential collisions with marine mammals and you know from the in construction in installation process 
Oh. 
for offshore wind. the Well, and then non kind of golf, you know issues, you know offshore wind is obviously much more expensive, you know, certainly on Shore wind and certainly it's detractors will point out that it's intermittent. And so and does not, you know serve as a base load source of energy, you know to our grid and you know, I think there's some concern in the environmental community that around you know, the use of offshore wind to produce hydrogen and a lot of questions about whether that's actually a net benefit for the environment or not and Yeah, I guess those would be the main ones. 
That makes sense. You kind of got into it, but my next question is about the mechanisms of how each of those are actually affecting change. So let's start with climate change. And think not the global effects. That's a whole can of worms but Texas and Louisiana where wind is proposed what might some of the Effects that you haven't mentioned thus far might be or the mechanisms at which those are occurring. 
I don't know if I understand. 
so you mentioned things like the emissions from onshore natural gas production might go down. That's a net benefit or The increased storm activity if we manage to stop climate change or slow it might be ameliorated those sorts of things. Those are the ones you mentioned. Is there anything else? 
Okay. Yeah, let me say. well, yeah, I don't know if this counts in the same vein, but a benefit I've often pointed to is that the you know winds are often strongest during kind of closest to the peak demand for electricity. And and so as Texas's electric grid is still a bit fragile after winds can provide a great complements, you know to that energy providing electricity when we need it the most and you know, and I've seen not not and all the time but at times when even when Win-win is low on Shore or wind speeds are low on Shore you still see, you know a decent, you know. wind speed off of the coast of the Gulf of Mexico pointing again that you know, it could really complement the onshore renewable resources and that there's times when you know on land, you know that the wind won't be blowing or the sun won't be shying but you know the offshore might be able to fill a gap during those those periods. And let's say what else but yeah, so then that means then if that's the case, you know that allows us to move more towards 100% renewable energy, which then means, you know, less Reliance on fossil fuels for electricity production. let's say what else mmm. I you know, I've heard you know that some on the drawback side, you know some other concerns around just the cabling and impact, you know to you know onshore, you know, sensitive ecosystems wetlands and things and I think Texas Parks and Wildlife has kind of brought raised some of those concerns. And then let's see what else? Also just the noise for the construction. I think, you know can can impact marine life. say 
yeah, you had mentioned Birds and turtles I think are there's specific species or areas that might Who are the winners and losers in the ecosystem in terms? 
well, you know whales in the rice as well were very concerned about you know, and when when they're so few of them, you know, any kind of impact can have a disproportionate, you know, the fact on, you know, it's Extinction or not. And so yeah, I think you know endangered. whales and other species the other things, you know in terms of mitigation, you know, the lower, you know the Lower temperatures were able to avoid or were able to secure with greater use of renewable energy. Then could also mean, you know less flooding and of coastal areas and you know, because of course we've seen, you know from Hurricane Harvey and others that's you know, the extreme rainfall events or maybe even more extreme and Powerful, you know, because of a warming climate and so offshore wind can mitigate that as well 
yeah, that makes sense. 
and then extreme heat and you know again, I don't know if that's beyond the scope of this but 
Yeah, we sort of have spatial boundaries to our project of the the golf and really the Western Gulf but recognize that it's hard to draw boundaries around some of these Global phenomenons that are having effects everywhere. So leave that up to you, but trying to keep Texas, I guess in the Forefront of your brain. and speaking of Texas you had mentioned that offshore has the seems like it might be more expensive than onshore wind. Where does it fit in and amongst the other energy pieces of the portfolio there? cost wise Or we're projecting. 
Oh cost-wise I'm not sure I know probably at least double if not more the the cost of you know on Shore wind or solar now. And so, you know, I think then that that means that you know unlike. You know say the Northeast where there are fewer onshore renewable resources and electricity prices are much higher Texas, you know has a ton of onshore renewable resources and electricity prices are pretty low. And so that makes the economics more challenging and then and then an Additionally, you know, the Northeast you have, you know, a lot of states that are committing to buy the power Texas is not you know doing it has not done so and doesn't seem likely. To do so and so figuring out, you know. an off-take, you know for that offshore winds, you know, it seems critical to seek, you know actually developing it off the coast of Texas and then but you know, like I said, you know, it does have attributes that so often align with Peak demand and so as as ER Khan and Texas are increasingly, you know, grading incentive soon to encourage New Generation particularly that aligned during demand and you know that might provide, you know a revenue source that could help make it more viable. 
that makes sense. 
And then and then addition to the IRA tax credits and just the economies of scale that will hopefully drive down the prices. 
Yeah. Okay, that helps me put it in perspective the larger perspective the other thing you mentioned. 
And then yeah when last thing I just point out is that yeah, I think it's Mark Jacobson out of Stanford that has kind of plotted state by state, you know, 100% renewable energy scenarios and even with our abundant onshore resources. He he's still includes, you know on offshore wind as I forget the exact percentage but 10 or 20% you know of the mix he projects might come from offshore winds, which suggested me then that it's 
interesting 
Critical that we develop it. 
Yeah, yeah that makes a lot of sense. You mentioned hydrogen and I know less about that and that it potentially isn't environmentally friendly. Can you delve into that a little bit more and how that might play out? 
Yeah, well, I think that. Of course, there's lots of different kinds of hydrogen. And so if you know, if you're producing it with natural gas, you know, you know and not capturing the carbon, you know, that's very clearly problematic in terms of you know, both greenhouse gas emissions as well as localized, you know pollutants that could harm Health, but then even when you're looking at other kinds of hydrogen including with carbon capture, you know, which I think for the gas side, you know in Texas there's a lot of talk about pumping the captured carbon beneath the gold floor and you know, there's we haven't really done carbon capture at scale. And so there's always the risk then, you know, there's leaks or even catastrophic, you know, really so that's that could be very damaging to ocean life. But then yeah, if you're producing it with, you know, clean energy even then. You know, it's very energy intensive to produce the hydrogen and you know, we may be better off just electrifying everything that we can you know, including Transportation rather than trying to use the hydrogen as a transportation fuel that ultimately would be likely be more energy efficient and and thoughts better for the environment. 
Okay, that makes sense. I just learned a lot about hydrogen. All right stepping outside of your area of expertise or Experience a little bit. This is the what have you heard question? What else or what other benefits or drawbacks? Have you heard about? That we should include. 
Yeah, yeah. well, I've heard and positive in terms of just the you know onshore, you know Economic Development potential and you know, I I went to a national offshore wind Institute facility and in Massachusetts or their training people including former offshore oil workers, you know to switch to the offshore wind careers, and so clearly a lot of you know Economic Development and Workforce Development potential. There in terms of the drawback. I've heard some criticism around just all the diesel boats that may be required to install offshore wind and then the concerns among the coastal communities about the air pollution resulting from all that air pollution. Oh from all that Diesel and let's see what else It will definitely the concerns about offshore wind emit a hurricane. You know, we you know, we don't yet have the turbans that can withstand, you know hurricane winds and so concerned then about, you know, lost Investments, you know, that might come from spending all this money to build them. But then also then just you have a lot of wrecked parts that's you know, go wind up in landfills, you know, there's been increasing concern in Texas and with onshore winds piling up and in landfills and creating a new sense for communities like in Sweetwater so I can imagine you know, that being potential concern for offshore wind as well. If they're continued. They're can't withstand those hurricane winds. Let's see. What else? I mean I know during the Economical assessment that boam did that. There are some concerns right interfering with offshore drilling or military uses or they're just kind of 
me 
they're potentially could be some conflicts in terms of use of that space. 
they're potentially could be some conflicts in terms of use of that space. Well, just you know related to the cost to consumers or relative high cost, you know, there's potential impact to them that that raises electric bills for load of income customers. Although in Texas is deregulated Market. I don't know exactly how that would work. But you know, that's potentially a a risk. Yeah, those are only other things that come to mind. 
that was a good Rundown. And you mentioned the training programs up in Massachusetts. Do you this Texas Louisiana will really anywhere in the Gulf have those up and running yet or people going elsewhere. 
um not that I've heard of so I know we 
Okay. 
have kind of some community colleges offer kind of renewable energy kind of programs including kind of for wind energy. But of course a lot of skills are different for offshore winds that they are for onshore. But yeah, I don't know and in doesn't probably isn't as relevant for Texas since we are, you know expected to build any offshore wind probably for at least a decade, so probably not necessary to have that kind of training yet. 
That makes sense last question thinking about all of the long list of things. We've now produced of things that might change. How does management potentially have a role in? Affecting how those benefits or drawbacks are played out. And this doesn't necessarily have to be State roles. It's broader sense of policy. 
Okay. well Well, one thing right off the bat, I forgot to mention before but this past legislative session. We the Texas house passed a bill to study the supply chain for offshore wind in Texas. And you know, since we are already producing some of the the vessels, you know that install offshore wind down in Brownsville. I think an Ingleside facility produced, you know, the substation that went for you know, one of the Atlantic Australian, so we're already you know, a key part of the supply chain and there seem to be even more opportunities to kind of leave whether or not we build offshore wind in Texas any time soon, you know, Texas plays an important role in just the national and potentially Global development of the industry. And so but in terms of policy and management that build only past the house didn't pass the Senate, but if it became law it, you know, that could help. Texas identify ways to further the supply chain which which seems to be you know. A potential bottleneck, you know for the development of offshore winds, you know as we've seen kind of cancellations along the Atlantic it seems like supply chain issues along with inflation other things have been a played a role. So Texas, you know by identifying, you know, know perhaps, you know industries that could tow benefits from offshore wind so, you know, whether it's Yeah, whether it's you know. Companies that run ships out to offshore drilling vessels, you know. 
right 
Setting them up to also same serve the same role, you know for for offshore wind or as I mentioned, you know, some of the other manufacturing of the vessels and supply chain or the the turbines themselves, you know potent Texas potentially could help develop those Supply chains and then Seems like you know, the Public Utility Commission or caught could start planning for interconnection, 
Yeah. 
including you know, looking at the transmission needs and you know looking to kind of potentially streamline that process for interconnection as well. As you know, as they're thinking through incentives for New Generation, you know, making offshore wind eligible for you know, those kind of incentives for providing power at Peak demand then yeah, and then in terms of the other environmental impact signature to the gulf, you know, I know some some groups have called for a full Eis, you know the Gulf of Mexico which You know could help identify and mitigate other, you know, potential impacts. I know on the downside is a potentially could slow, you know, or sort of development or make more expensively development. And so I don't know what the right answer is on that one, but that would certainly be a kind of a management tool. and then what else? I think you know more in a funding for R&D including to you know, help develop turbines that can withstand hurricane winds. Yeah, you know, I know if Texas were to adopt some of the policies, Louisiana has adopted. Or at the very least stop being so negative or some of our politicians being so negative about top Shore wind that could help. Demonstrate to the industry that Texas is welcoming to them and you know because there's been bills and legislature for example to retroactively, you know. Create new permitting, you know requirements on Renewables and the industry the entrepreneurial industry freaked out saying oh, you know that would basically shut down the industry in Texas. And so, you know that that kind of negative policy could turn people away. 
Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, we've heard the appetite for offshore wind in Texas and Louisiana is a very different game. 
Yes. 
I I was actually that was going to be 
Yeah. 
my follow-up question. If you don't mind, I'd like Amy said this is one of the things that we've been learning through these interviews is that the Gulf of Mexico is not a monolith in any way shape or form? And especially in these two states where it's kind of progressing. There's there's some key social and political differences that are probably going to affect how it rolls out. And so I guess like coarsely speaking. What is your macro level sense of the social and political appetite for offshore wind in Texas from where you set? 
Yeah. I think it's you know different from Louisiana. We know one. They had a little Democratic developed a climate plan and if you want to do something about climate you need Renewables that they have, you know, very little in terms of onshore Renewables. And so they had to look offshore Texas doesn't have a Democratic governor. We don't have a climate action plan and even if we did, you know, we have tons of onshore renewable. So I even had you know members of renewable energy companies kind of question. You know, why are we even talking about offshore wind? We have all this onshore. So there's that definitely seems to be you know even among You know adminable Advocates, you know some skepticism about whether it makes sense to develop it certainly, you know, some concern from environmental corridors concerns about impacts to birds. Although I've heard, you know, some Wildlife people being much more excited about offshore wind than they are about Coastal winds because able 
Yeah. 
to avoid some of the impacts including the migratory birds that they've seen then then you have people like yeah Wayne Christian, you know speaking out the railroad commissioner speaking out against offshore wind Mae's Middleton the state senator who represents Galveston which is of course the area that would most directly benefit is, you know outspoken opponent, you know, two offshore wind. And but on the other hand, you know the Texas house passed this bill, right? So a majority of The legislature back to plan to you know study the economic benefits and you know potential for offshore wind. I think that was you know in part a big result was we successfully recruited a republican Jamie Lopez who represents the Brownsville area, you know who has the shipyard there and says kind of you know already seeing kind of some of the benefits carrying the Bell. So I think a lot of the legislature probably just deferred to her as opposed to being, you know, very excited about it. So I think mostly it's just hasn't been on the radar at all in terms of political discussion. 
you will. 
We have the Texas public policy Foundation, of course based here, which has been mostly fighting offshore winds, you know in Massachusetts and in the Atlantic and using you know environmental arguments to make their case, which is ridiculous given that they're you know opposed or they're big backers of all sorts of fossil fuel development including offshore drilling don't seem concerned about the environment then but they're using these environmental arguments to speak against software wind disingenuously, I think but anyway that you know, they're obviously, you know influential. Including the Texas Senate where our lieutenant governor who runs the show, you know, nothing happens to the Senate really without his support and he's opponent of offshore. He's an opponent of wind power generally including after winds. And so yeah, it's yeah, it's much kind of muddied waters in terms of you know, support in Texas 
I have a related question about Orcutt, I guess the what happens when it gets plugged in side of things and how how or have you heard anything in that discussion about Is the grid ready to take it? I know it's not connected to the rest of the country. And so there's different considerations able to assume. Have you heard anything? 
Yeah, I mean, I think urcott doesn't seem to be planning for it at all or investigating it at all. Is you know as far as I can tell and so yeah, and I think there's some question that you know, even if we did get it off the Texas coast given the you know, ambivalence or hostility from Texas. Would they even interconnect with Arcado where they instead, you know, go to temaiso and you know, because my you know, I think Beaumont Port Arthur is, you know part of its own, you know part of the other grid and so might make sense if you've got an appetite for for offshore winds from including in that area, you know. a lot less renewable energy potential in those kind of Southern States, so but yeah, it definitely seems like something they need to do and I think if if we ever get a lease, you know off the Texas coast, maybe then that would prompt or contact actually start taking it seriously, but it's understandable given that nobody even did on the Texas tracks that Erica doesn't find it a priority to focus on right now. 
Yeah, that makes sense. Well, those are all of my questions. Well, I don't know if you have any more follow-ups or clarifications. 
No, that was that was very comprehensive. do you have anything else rattling around in your head that you want to add in that? You have no chance to share or are you feeling feeling hurt? 
Definitely feeling heard. I don't know. Let me see if there's anything else. 
No, I think that's covers that. 
Perfect, all 
