Start with like Fisheries ecology here. Then so. you know for You know fisheries and Fisheries ecology. what are You know the impacts that. You're for seeing for offshore wind development. So impacts being both benefits and potential. Damages that need mitigation and for off for when development or thinking about both construction and operation. 
Um, so I guess for benefit, you know, I see this working a lot like oil and gas platforms, you know bringing in structure and you're gonna have things aggregate to it. for potential downfalls kind of along the same lines of any noise issues or even you know, whether the electrical current so they're gonna be running from the wind farms to the coast, you know, is that gonna cause Any issues both, you know, could it be? I guess having them avoid the area or would that drawn to the area as well, too? I guess that's kind of unknown at the moment. So, I mean, I don't know I kind of I'm looking at this a lot. I guess as oil and gas and how it same pros and cons is that has minus oil spills, I guess. 
Yeah, so I mean that's that's something to be captured. Right as yeah, there's no there might have other things but there won't be 
I might have other things right? 
Yeah. 
I'm a little curious 
can I 
home 
I guess you know how these are gonna be placed out there because I've seen you know, the models that they're you know, they're not actually gonna be fully attached. They'll be more they send my submersible structures too. And then them all lined up in a Grade like they are how is that going to affect those hurricane impacts and how strong Stabler they're going to be or they does one go out. Will it take the other ones out so forth? 
That's a can I jump in just for first 
but 
I can Holden I've there's been a 
yeah. 
little bit of a pattern in some of the interviews and when when the interview gives a certain response. Similar to the one you just gave I like to jump in and ask this kind of sub question. It's not on your protocol. So I apologize for usurping here here will hold but when you when you say 
Yeah. 
that you expect the turbines to act similarly to Platforms in the golf as we know them. Besides like the cabling and maybe some of the noise and EMF that you mentioned. Do you see any other key differences between offshore wind and an oil and natural gas or do you expect them to behave almost exactly the same? 
kind of hard to say since I don't know too much into how the structures of the offshore island with or offshore wind are gonna be developed I'm kind of expecting them to be the same my only I guess the only thing that I think could make me create the differences that electrical current. and how that might react 
I didn't have that on my What's the questions as I wanted to also tease out? going back to like which to get Dave go go into more of the specifics on. The Fishery which Fisheries are affected You know because it similar to oil and gas there's different different Fisheries are affected in different ways. 
So which fish think might be affected? 
Which which species and then which you know which Fisheries. like, you know Yes, I don't want to put any in there. Hey, but you know, they're the different. Which specific Fisheries might be affected by. by offshore wind development 
um Yeah. 
word or specific species, too. You know. red snapper compared to 
Oh, yeah, I was having red snapper. I think will aggregate near those that is more places or people to, you know have spot where they definitely know where they'll be the fish for him just like platforms. 
yeah, and then from that one thing it's like, you know, there's the recreational. Pokemon and Commercial line and 
right Right it definitely I mean, I guess for several Fisheries, I would definitely give it more of a hotspot where they know they could go and they know, you know, something might be there. I'm trying to think two of anything that because that might be in the way of. I'm thinking that would be too far out. 
for which 
Well, like if it's in the way I guess for a shrimp fishery or something. I'm thinking they might be too far offshore. Um or where I've seen some of the plans. 
so shrimp fishery depending on where they are. 
right 
on locations So we fish reef fish and shrimp. 
mmm 
the 
It's if they're further offshore too. I think they can, you know start to aggregate the tuna populations. And so yeah, you'll have another hotspot for those then. 
no makes sense. 
yeah now Beyond Fisheries to do you have picture other potential? kind of effects from offshore wind development but they're any non Fisheries to impacts the you might Do you think what yeah what non Fisheries impacts or you may be thinking about for not quite phrasing this right, but for offshore wind development for construction and operation of offshore wind. 
I'm sure there's gonna be a concern with the construction and operation for you know, the marine mammals as well in the noise pollution and 
would be 
pollution and everything that that's going to create. So yeah, I think that would be one of the big ones. That's gonna hit. 
so so it's noise and pollution. 
With it, I guess more sound pollution than anything. 
mmm Okay. and for now so to kind of like read it right here they may not I mean Notes, I have so far or there's you know potential. benefits for as fish aggregation and then but the potential damagers are from noise electric currents and that could be for both fish and from marine mammals. And specific Fisheries for this four will be refresh like red snapper in the refined Snapper grouper. Trigger Jack complex shrimp fishery depending on location into an aggregation or potential aggregations for Tunas. I guess for both of these your picturing both recreational and Commercial impact right, too. a non Fisheries impacts for from marine mammals Are there other potential management actions? that could either mitigate these damages or optimize the benefits 
I mean, I guess it's something. I feel the management issue is going to be just like anything else when you know fishing pressure gets added on, you know adjustments will have to be made then depending on how that fishing pressure might increase. So then they would have to step in to make those adjustments to regulations at that point. And you know, there could be I guess size differences too in these fish and that maybe that may not be an interest, you know, depending on what size are aggregating to these if it's you know, we see that some too with the platforms where you might have lower sizes aggregating to them or smaller size ranges and the larger sizes. for some of their species 
That's the platforms like bring in different sizes. 
always seen I mean they I guess 
complement and 
they have a wide range of it. I remember what the Snapper we were kind of seeing, you know, you would have smaller age groups on the platforms and then they would start to move off to the Natural Banks as they got larger it still have the larger fish on them. But you might have some of the smaller size ranges or age classes on there before they move off. I don't know if that would hold the same issue or not there. I think a lot of it too is dependent on location as well. 
okay, so that but the main kind of management actions that you're thinking of or kind of like fisheries management, they can be done kind of like at the council or Fisheries manage man knowing that we're going to probably have this. It's all short development. With kind of the main thinking of changing the changing available habitat out there. 
And sounds like any thoughts about marine mammals and can be done. 
I really like expertise filled there. 
Yeah. 
Yeah. No, I'm not even gonna dive into that one. 
now some something that I've kind of personally been curious too and this too. It's also you know in Europe there's most of the offer when or Are excluded from fishing? that's you know good chance that'll be different. All right potentially different here. But like exclusion zones around these structures could act as you know, the full Marine protected areas. which of course can be controversial in that, you know, they could potentially have spillover effects, but then they could also, you know, they also could limit access to fishing and have you know. Of course conflict with that. It's just question. I think about a lot, you know, there's what are your thoughts on this of that these of potential, you know, like the potential for exclusion zones around? ultra wind farms 
Hmm. I think that could be beneficial, you know having some areas. You know some more I guess like protected areas from obviously. We've been looking a little bit more at the Galveston potential Galveston site. It's kind of a nice Middle Ground between the coast and then to the flower garden Banks. So really we're a little bit more interested into that too about how maybe that could be a stopover or transition zone in between the two areas. So yeah in that case, I think having some of these exclusion zones could be beneficial to both areas and 
so the similar service like for like metapopulation or for like lar polar population Uh connectivity is the word. I'm trying to think that population 
right 
connectivity. And I want to also ask about like specifically because you've done a lot of work in the flower gardens, which is such a unique and special place. you know the issues around the flower gardens might be different than if you know around Louisiana for instance. 
right 
you know and the flower gardens are in one of the And one of the wind energy areas are there kind of specific things for the flower gardens that they should maybe be thinking about at this time. 
So the flower gardens are in a zone at the moment. 
Yeah quickly if I'm wrong. Well, I think they're in I think that's what said that they're actually in the 
They're they're approximate. to so it's just north and and west of flower garden Banks and immediately west of is it Boomer bank or Bama Bank? But it would be so it's not within 
month 
but I think what was talking about was potential spillover effects that's close enough and when you talk 
Yeah. 
about things like vessel traffic or increased antigenic Footprints, I think it from an ecological standpoints close enough that there's potential spillovers. But yeah, it's those areas were deconflicted out. So military uses protected spaces and things like that in the Gulf of Mexico. Aren't under consideration, even though they're within they're technically within the call area. 
Okay. 
But they're not allowed to be considered for Leasing. 
cover 
Anyways with like the close proximity of flower gardens flower garden being so unique. In order any kind of concerns of thoughts that you have for offshore wind development. 
right, so that's I guess that's kind of one of the last topics at the you know, SAC meeting is just trying to see because we don't know at the moment, you know, what kind of effects would there be kind of like he mentions just gonna cause more traffic or would there be more you know, and for genetic effects, you know pollution from these this yeah, it was still over as you know, just it's I guess hard to say at this time. Obviously you want to keep the flower gardens. It's kind of flowers are so nice because they're so secluded from everything. So yeah, if we start pulling it in closer to some of these areas what kind of effects then are we going to get. 
yeah. 
yeah. How was your model looking well? 
It's good. I have one curiosity. that comes up in a lot of these interviews and I think you might be you may or may not be uniquely suited to answer some of these questions, but given your work on highly migratory species and kind of in and around their relationships the platform ecology you mentioned EMF and electromagnetics and I think that's pretty largely. It's a big unknown for a lot of people scientists and Layman alike. Do you know anything about the potential impacts of electromagnetic fields on highly migratory species mammals anything like that or is that an unknown for for your group as much it is for everybody else. 
Yeah, that's an unknown for me. You know, like I said that was something interested if it would have any impacts at all. But yeah at this moment, I don't have enough information on that too. Say one way or the other. 
Totally totally. Yeah. I just wanted to double check because I feel like it comes up in like about half of these and for a lot of people it's it's a big question mark and I think it's not that much of a logical leap to imagine it having an effect on highly migratory species mammals or even reef fish. But no one really knows for sure. So took a swing there, but that's 
Yeah. 
that's totally fine. And like I said, we're just as interested in the things people don't know are wondering about as the things they know for sure, right so 
Do you do you know how much energy is put out by these? 
all we have is the models that are that are based on sort of European technology because we don't have That much there's nothing operational in the US yet. We don't have any sort of proxy to work from so it's kind of hard to say a lot of it's going to depend on the type of the type of turbine in the the technology they use And then also what they're using it 
see 
for. So there's some speculation that they the first least that went out. They might not even plug it into the grid for recreationally or like to power homes. For example, it might be used power some other sort of energy generation activity like green hydrogen either onshore offshore or some other sort of they might plug directly into some sort of production facility. And so all of Those considerations would have an impact on the type of cabling that's used the type of turbine that's used in the output of the turbine, whether it's running all the time, whether it's plugged into the grid Etc. so All of that comes back to Bow and Bessie and whoever wins the individual leases a lot. That's gonna be up to them. 
right 
but it's interesting right because as Stewards of of the science we kind of have to to plan for all any and all um outcomes there. So we'd love to know just as much as you would. 
Yeah. 
Know yeah, I'll see curious too, but 
Go ahead 
you know. You know because of the work done on. Platform ecology, you know as if I'm running protected areas because I think that's the thing. kind of thorny thing that scientifically the other one that Too with this too. And it's it's this relates to a much broader question and rainy ecology is production versus aggregation of these and it's something like familiar. You know, what you've kind of said is you mostly see this as benefits is that it Aggregates, you know. Snappers groupers Jacks trigger fit, you know the reef fish complex and then, you know Tunas and HMS. to course, there's questions of like is this is this overall a good thing? Because you know, there's benefits and negatives to that. You know, what's what's your thoughts on that after you know having worked in? You know artificial Reef ecology now for a while. 
Oh that I mean even with I guess the platforms there's that's always been kind of hard too. It's been good and bad, right? You know, it's it's nice. They you have this additional structure Forum. But then again, too, there's just Extra stuff we're putting out there that comes with its cons as well. So I I like I said, I just kind of see this going the same way that there could be some benefits, but then there could be some cons to it as well that we're just not aware of quite yet or some of the same anthropogenic impacts maybe as well that come along with it again. I not 100% Sure since I'm not sure how exactly these are. going to be set up and put in but I can see there, you know. Having both and it's the same with platforms. You kind of hate to see and go out there, but then I think they turn out to be some of the prettiest hilarious that you know to dive and you know, see everything flourish there too. So It'll be interesting. I think. 
Yeah. 
I'm curious how this all and that's 
Because right now with a lot of the platforms, they're just strictly removing them and bringing them back in or not. You know, a lot of them aren't even getting toppled or you know cut off anymore which At that point I think if they're in you might as well keep some of them around. and to have some of those benefits but 
Yeah, it's real similar discussions going on about you know, decommissioning. Yeah, well gas infrastructure right now. 
which I guess that will end up being kind of the same thing then to once too because aren't the wind farms are they're supposed to be out for a set amount of time and then they take them back in. Or some of the things I was seeing 
Yeah. 
like they're gonna be out there for 20 or so years and then 
Their their leased and projected for Life Span 20 to 40. 
Okay. 
It was a this has been pretty comprehensive for someone. Who was trying to caveat their expertise beforehand? I think you covered a lot of ground here. 
No. 
Good. No, it's really good. Is there anything else related to Offshore winds? Generally speaking? In your head that we haven't given you the latitude to speak about and it doesn't have to be specific to the Gulf of Mexico. 
um I don't think so. I think we're kind of covered it. What the thoughts I've had on it so far, I guess. 
yeah, for sure and the obviously things will continue to evolve. Holden do you have any other loose threads that you want to pull on? 
now I take that. Okay covered a lot affiliate too, which is not. 
Yes. Okay, perfect. All right. So this point I'm 
