The cultural wind is a kind of start with some of these different aspects of it and I might kind of repeat kind of the same. things but this one's you know, some people have like a, you know, kind of a certain Focus area, but I think your work is so Broad. but let's let's start with I really want to hear about like kind of the framework of working with the communities and in the area because anyway, you've been there kind of your whole life and your whole career. So when you think about the school communities including Fisheries communities. What are some impacts communities that you foresee from offshore wind? So impacts being both part of the negative and then offshore wind development including both construction and operation. So what what are these? There's effects Coastal communities that you're thinking about for offshore wind. 
yeah with the caveat that I have a lot more detailed familiarity with Louisiana then done with Texas but some understanding there as well and and plenty of similarities between the types of communities and I think I'll purse this into like Federal development and state development because there's some there's some different challenges and issues there. I think in terms of the federal offshore wind development. Most of the impacts for Coastal communities are likely to be really good. really positive impacts and and I think that scales all the way from Coastal communities in the golfer experiencing some of the most impact intense impacts of climate change already and so between the like actual challenges and destruction that comes with that as well as the cascading impacts around the cost of insurance and you know, just that it's a harder place to live and people leaving the state and the economic stuff addressing climate change has the potential to have incredibly robust benefits for Coastal communities in the Gulf. So broadly speaking. I just think that's absolutely essential for these these communities to continue to exist where they are. And getting down to a more granular level and I think the other big impact comes from the opportunity for jobs and Manufacturing and and all of those kind of things. Um, you know again zoom out. it's really important for communities to Define what benefits mean for themselves and there are plenty of people that don't feel like jobs are an adequate benefit. I think that's totally valid and in particular here in Louisiana where you know we have resist Is to organize labor and and Texas is the same way. There's a way that this happens where communities don't necessarily get the kind of benefits that they could get from having access to these jobs that they aren't safe jobs that they aren't well compensated jobs. And so I think we're in a moment where like that could go either way in a pretty significant way. Um, and on top of that it's it's not just about servicing the industry and the Gulf of Mexico the you know, Louisiana and Texas having opportunity part of the supply chain for offshore wind nationally. And so I think that's another if companies and workers choose to take advantage of those opportunities. There's a bigger opportunity there that we can either follow or not and that includes things like s*** building not just sort of turbine components, which we're already starting to see like they're building one of the offer when installation vessel in Texas. So there's the job stuff the climate stuff. I think for negative impacts the the things that we probably worry about most are you know broadly speaking people really care about our migratory bird species and and chorebirds and things like there's a deep innate connection to the coastal environment. And so there is some level of like aesthetic harm that could potentially happen around this Wildlife impact if they're not properly addressed that becomes more of an issue with the state water. Right, like Louisiana really wants to build close to shore a lot more concerns about birds when we get. Closer and Fisheries are the other issue where there could potentially be negative impacts and that's what we've seen a really different. I see a really different conversation shaping up here in the Gulf of Mexico than in other regions around how Fisheries are thinking about dealing with offshore wind. None of the fisherman want to be put out of business for months and years on end the way they were with BP other spills, like those things are highly detrimental like understand that that's a problem. They're used to navigating structures in the water. And so I think as long as we're being really attentive to those needs avoiding having sort of long term areas where fisherman can't fish because construction is going on. I think they're all surmountable and I think we see the fishing Community really approaching it in a Solutions oriented framework here because they're so familiar with structure in the water as it is recreational fisherman will definitely benefit. They love structure some water and loves fishing the rigs. You know, that's like that's I think a pretty easy benefit. There that folks will really get to enjoy I think again, there's a difference here between the state and federal waters, right you put a bunch of turbines near shore close Waters that impacts a lot more fisherman than that aren't going as far offshore that are in those near shore Waters and anything could have more serious negative impacts. I'm trying to think of I think that the other potential thing here that's I think worth keeping in mind is there's a very high likelihood that at least some offshore wind development in the Gulf of Mexico will go towards the production of green hydrogen which you know, I personally think probably has some amount of application that's going to be important in the region. Right like we have these very hard to decarbonize Industrial sectors in the golf region and but if that becomes and excuse to build out more polluting industry or keep polluting industry that shouldn't exist anymore online and then we do have some serious negative Community impacts potentially coming from offshore wind because of the ability of green hydrogen. But that's a you know, sort of. Out there, not sure yet scenario. 
yeah and Nuance, which is interesting because You know it we've heard it pitched kind of a different way. And I think you know if you're thinking about that it could be. But you know, it could be positive but also negative to depending on the actual implementation in the nuances of it. I wanted to pull on that because you kind of said and that's something I know you've thought a lot about that. I think you'd have a unique perspective on is when you're talking about the types of jobs could go 
mmm 
could go either way. Okay. Yeah, could you talk more about that? 
well Yes, so what we the opportunity for offshore wind jobs to be really good and the progress we've seen on. getting policies in place that will help that happen have been really reliant on the presence of unions and and other you know, just labor organizing and labor protection policies on in particular on the East Coast, obviously, Louisiana and Texas are both right work states. We have definitely heard political resistance to things like as simple as project labor agreements, right like which are not that's not even a full or Union neutrality agreements. I think the feds have the opportunity to sort of set a minimum standard for like how we're going to treat labor in this conversation. I think they're generally doing an okay job of that. But I one of the things that keeps me up at night is that we end up with an energy transition in the Gulf of Mexico that continues to create a sacrifice Zone that's reliant on poorly paid labor and people not being able to leave the state. Go find jobs elsewhere because they're not getting paid enough. And so, you know as we see States like California that have really good better labor policies than we do and things like that like, Do do we just continue to like sell out the Gulf region for the benefit of Corporations making more money or do we actually ensure that we're trying to put our communities on equal footing in this in this moment? Does that answer the question it's a little randomly. 
yeah, yeah in that that goes into something sometimes these are necessarily linear, but I want to kind of keep on teasing this just really need and thought about like that is because one of our questions is what management actions affect 
mmm 
these relationships and this is a I think a really one that I haven't heard of is that labor policies could be is something that You know we management and government should be thinking about for offshore wind development. 
Yeah. and Bob has done some of I mean like they definitely like include these stipulations that include things like project labor agreements and can always do. 
Okay in the least stipulations, there are Prime and these policy Things Are. 
Yeah, I have to double check the exact ones. But yeah, there's some pretty standard least stipulations that the federal government uses that include some level of labor protections other states have gone above and beyond what that kind of thing in terms through their procurement processes. So when they say we're gonna buy Power from offshore Wind Farm, it has to meet certain environmental and labor standards and we have it for cured anything here yet. So there's still space for that to happen though. I think, you know bigger challenge in making it happen. 
so some of the notes I have here for you know. For impact here's the big one, of course being climate and offer one to be able to decarbonize energy production and especially for this, you know, the typical climate 
e? 
vulnerable area jobs in manufacturing with with very interesting notes about like how jobs how this could be. Best capitalized on that we could use policy to help help this potential negative impacts include, you know concerned about migratory birds. And then with that there's mentioned, you know, then the Nuance that this the spatial planning for this makes a big difference Fisheries will have positives and negatives, you know, recreational fisheries and structures. Might have benefits. And again, there's difference in state First Federal Waters and in planning. And then and then this potential mixed. Impact of green hydrogen production which can be positives, but then we want to make sure it doesn't just kind of sustain. you know sectors that we want to transition away from 
now 
time second Are those kind of writer do you have any other impacts for things that we thought of that and we can kind of continue to you know, get further from based more like speculation and thinking about things that you're concerned about. 
yeah, there was something else that popped into my head, but it disappeared already. It may come back. I'll let you know. 
And for these, you know, you might not be new things. I want to you know to kind of just ask the kind of question again, but from a different perspective of both. You know, I think. a different perspective not just as a professional perspective as the campaign manager for officer wind energy but also as kind of a lifelong Gulf resident 
yeah. 
you know, they're other thoughts that you have just you know, you know from that perspective about all for wind again, but again about these potential positive and negative impacts. 
Yeah, I mean, I'm very fortunate and I get to bring my personal perspective into my work a good bit. So a lot of that thinking around the labor standards and entering that we we do this the right way gets to show up in my work which is really wonderful and I think the one of the ways I've been framing this for myself and and for others in general when I talk about it is the We can. we can have an energy transition transformation that reinforces the inequities that are existing Energy System has created or we can have an energy transformation that actively Works to undo those inequities and I think not just an offshore in space But as as we consider all of this stuff that it's it's really important to to keep that in mind as we're making decisions. On top of that, I think. We're gonna an interesting I think paradigm shift. I think in particular for organizations and activists that work in the Gulf. And figuring out how to say yes to things. Um, and I don't blame communities organizations people have done this work for a long time for being really nervous and skeptical when shell wants to build offshore in the goal. Right shell is not a good actor for these communities before BP shell was the bad guy, Louisiana. They seem to have forgotten that. um, and so I think it's really hard to look at that and say like All right, we got to figure out how we work with shell to get this right. People are justifiably nervous about that. And so I think one of the things I find myself thinking about a lot personally and professionally is How do we not just on the environmental side of things not just on the community side of things but get the business side and the government folks. to think about how we even have these conversations in a different way that will let us understand the real constraints that that everyone is facing like what are the constraints that an offshore wind developer has in building out a project right? They're financing issues. They're pledge and issues. They're all these kind of things. Um, what kind of when when a developer says they can't do something. What is the reason they can't do that so that like, you know If I in my professional capacity, you know, we're asking for some expensive bird monitoring technology for example, and the developers says we can't do that. But the reason they can't do it is because they're throwing a ton of money at a community Benefit Plan. Maybe I want to say yes to that right like and so I think we have to be willing to I hope that we can get to a point where we're willing to like. Say yes to the thing and say good enough to things and and have the real conversation that lets us. Operate on a playing field where people have the information they need to make valuable decisions. We have a really hard time with like grappling with when you say no to something you're inherently saying yes to something else and I think that's just a really hard part of this. It's part of the reason. I think I'm thinking about hydrogen the way I am is just like we are gonna continue to need Plastics on some level right? Like there is a medical application where Plastics are just the good thing to have right? So we're not gonna get rid of all the Plastics. What does that mean in terms of decarbonizing that sector to the extent that we can if we say no you can't have hydrogen and no you can't do any carbon sequestration. What where does that leave us? It leaves us with a lot more carbon in the atmosphere to continue to have this things. And so I I just I am. I hope we can all like both bring like some really big picture thinking to this that like this is a global issue that like our choices have impacts Beyond where we are and that they're going to be things that we have to do that. We don't necessarily feel like totally awesome about doing but like we're in this place with climate change that we got to figure out how to do it. And deep do carbonization is hard. So yeah, I mean that's again like big pictures. Maybe let's kind of thinking but I 
Yeah. 
think that's it Louisiana Texas are a place where the rubber meets the road on those conversations right in a way that that they don't in any of the other places where the US is pursuing offshore wind, right? Like we're not talking about having industrial corridors that need Need a type of energy that like we haven't quite figured out yet really much of anywhere else. Um or much of anywhere else where it's adjacent offshore wind plenty of the middle of the country has these same problems, but they're not looking at not sure right. 
I'm I'm gonna jump in for a second just because I'm sure Holden you picked up on this too, but Holden and I did an interview yesterday with someone. That's probably I wouldn't say like dimetrically opposed but like probably categorically on the other side of the aisle from where you are, but they said almost exact same thing verbatim. That's why you just said, which I think is really fascinating in terms of the conversations that need to be had in the way that this issue needs to be handled. I think that I think that that really speaks to the value of the approach here, but like in terms of the things that we're getting and the things that you're saying the fact that it's so close to to someone else who I think in a traditional method we might write off as someone who would be in opposition to a lot of things that you're saying saying the same thing as you I think it's really really that was a super fascinating moment for me right there. I'm like I said holding up sure you picked up on it, too. 
Yeah, I would suspect that. You guys would vote very differently, but right here about this you're saying the exact same things. 
But somehow doesn't surprise me. I think it's really it's really 
Yeah, well, I think it also speaks 
interesting. 
to. The politics and approaches in Louisiana, specifically, I think Louisiana even distinct from the broader golf conversation is a unique political and social environment for this to be unfolding. It's very, Texas. 
Absolutely. 
But I I suspect that it has more to do with Louisiana's approach to Industry and and energy broadly than it does about. political affiliate's or even like like moral leanings and things like that, which is super fascinating. 
I agree. Yeah. 
And and I want to ask specifically about that. You know, you were so closely with it that you're saying that you're more familiar with Louisiana than in Texas, but even still you're so familiar with this that you can parse out those differences. 
Yeah. 
Could be revisits. Like some of those some of those differences how you're seeing, you know? where is there kind of overlap between Louisiana and Texas and where and we're how do they differ? 
Yeah, I think the the primary overlap is there is in both states of desire to continue. Businesses usual with our existing Energy System from the political class and from the business Community Community. The difference in Louisiana is there's more of an interest in adding some things to that not changing the existing system but adding stuff to it and the Frederick and messaging on that very clear. No one's being secretive about that. Whereas in Texas we've seen in particular as it really soft wind. I don't track other Renewables. Obviously Texas is so weird because they like have more wind energy than anywhere else in the US, but they're like They're so strange about their energy stuff their Consumer Energy stuff. I should say. Um We've seen in the last. six months leaders in Texas like buy into the East Coast misinformation around Wales and offshore wind and use that as like a reason that they don't want to build offshorean at the same time as they're a couple of really important big shipbuilding projects that are bringing jobs and opportunity to Texas directly related to Offshore wind and the it seems from what I can gather that like legislators from this coastal areas from Brownsville in particular like no we should be doing this like there's an opportunity here. They were in capital this wind expertise. Like there's no reason that they should not be a huge part of the supply chain in the US really they've got this and so I don't it's it almost seems like in Texas there's a The response offshore wind has more to do with a political identity than it does with any of the realities whereas in Louisiana. You have Republicans who? And I've worked in Louisiana for a long time. I've gone from a point where like when I started my prayer you can talk about climate change like just never mentioned it. Um, you could and then slowly you could talk about sea level rise, but not for climate change and now it's like pretty out there even for a lot of conservatives legislators in the state especially folks from the coast because they see it that you just can't ignore it anymore. Um, and so I think we have this sort of funny mix of things. We're like, legislators who identify who are Republicans who identify with that are just not gonna get in with the party line on this particular thing because they they see an opportunity. For the state to add this thing that we're uniquely qualified to do that. We just like have this great chance and so they're willing to break with the conservative ideology around Renewables around energy and make different choices. I mean, they're still making conservative align choices around that right like it's still business focused. It's it's like, you know, it's more about like, how do we make more money? How do we make our jobs which is fine. Like I really don't care what perspective people get to we should do this. I don't think it matters all that 
me 
much ultimately and for whatever reason I think we've just gotten kind of Lucky and Louisiana in terms of the The political ideology, so I think that's a huge part of it. I think you know additionally like Texas is such a big state that just, you know, people don't I think everyone in Louisiana like even if you live in North Louisiana, you feel some level of connection to the coast, right? Like people come down here and they hunt and they fish there there's a In particular with conservative folks who hunt and fish in Louisiana, there's like a real understanding that this is like a whole Statewide ecosystem. There's a fly away for migratory birds, like all of these things and so like you kind of get the importance of like you know you get to shoot fat Ducks because they hang out in Louisiana's coastal wetlands for part of their migratory path and that's like good for you and like people get that on on some sort of really visceral level. And so it makes for I think an understanding of how the state benefits from the coast just look a little different than it would in in a state like Texas which has a huge Coastline but like doesn't have as much connection to to that Coast if that makes sense. 
Yeah. Yeah, it's it's a really, you know, it's hard to make you know, broad generalizations like that. But it really captures affiliate. I don't know it describe some of the things that I've seen in these conversations really well and like models that That's really neat. I want to kind of come back to something that you said here is that that I think is really powerful and you know, one of the key things moving forward with this whole internet with this whole transition as an energy transition can reinforce or undo existing inequities. One of our one of the kind of framing questions is What management actions could have can affect the relationships you mentioned? So again, this can be like littered from a like an omniscient management perspective what we're just trying to capture here is these ideas from the government? What can be do what can we do? What can we write? You know, I guess researchers right about now to help. To rein, you know, what should we be aware of the you know, they can potentially reinforce existing. Yeah, I inequities and what can government do to help them do that with this energy transition? 
Yeah, that's such a good question. This is it's one of those really interesting spaces where again, I think Louisiana and Texas are places where rubber meets the road on these kind of decisions. So for example in New England, we've seen things like in I think it's in Salem Massachusetts. They were able to close down a Coal Fired peaker plant and build a cable manufacturing facility in that spot and the community was really excited about that. They get clean air and the other development that was proposed for Area was like luxury condos, right which for a relatively poor Community tied to a port is not what you want. Right? Like that does not help you continue to exist in your community. So they were thrilled a manufacturing facility that would provide jobs in the community for people would be cleaner all that good stuff. Those kind of opportunities to like make a choice between luxury condos or manufacturing don't really exist in the same kind of way here. And so you instead get into the space where on some level from like an environmental perspective from a land use perspective. We want to be putting the manufacturing for offshore wind and things like that in spaces where there's existing manufacturing right like it you don't want to Plow down for us or what filling Wetlands to build manufacturing facilities and in some ways that's a great opportunity. It's things like the Avondale Shipyard getting you know repurposed to really focus on wind development. Like that's an exciting thing that's happening. Um, but on the flip side all of those existing facilities, even the ones that have closed are in general intense line communities, right like across the board throughout the golf. And so then you end up in this situation where You know, do we build another manufacturing facility as like this particular oil and gas thing closes down or does the community not want that? And then where do you put it? So I think we end up in these challenging situations with with like land use planning and the intersection of how that happens in relationship to already impacted marginalized communities that gets really really tough and I think we've seen this really clearly with the Department of Energy's hydrogen Hub work in like they are actively choosing and and publicly stating that they're choosing sites with existing infrastructure. We're hydrogen can be applicable which means they're putting more infrastructure in communities that may not want it may not benefit from it may actually be harmed by it. I get the like choice to do that, right? That's where the land is. So, how do we how do we figure this out? They're not doing a good job. They're like doing these Community benefit plans that like don't actually have any Community by end, right? Um, so I don't want to pretend that this is like an easy thing. I think there are probably many levels of decision making that can impact this I expect that this is one of those spaces where like local zoning actually has to change and matter and that's hard like people don't do advocacy at that on this types of projects or types of policies at the local level, but it is it's the reason that we can't Goal meaningfully that the issue of Energy Efficiency, right? Most of the decisions about Energy Efficiency are made it really local levels and it makes it incredibly hard people are as like what about Energy Efficiency? And I'm like, what about it? Like it's a really there's no National Energy Efficiency policy. I mean we've done kind of what we can but like that ultimately wants to like building codes and providing resources for people. It's the same thing with land use planning right like these are these are the kind of things that are really hard and they impact the tax base of these communities. We already have poor County that that really, you know, need those manufacturing facilities for for tax purposes. So it gets very complicated. I do think there's plenty of work to be done at that level. I think at the federal level where we're going to see the most powerful opportunities is in implementation of the tax credits and the incentives that are like in the IRA and build back better and being as thoughtful as we can be about those and being willing to like fix things. Like I know that there's some some concern that some of the hydrogen tax credits are actually incentivizing the exact opposite of what we want them to us incentivize like and I I don't know any of the details on that. I just not from talking to other people in the space We've Ended up in a situation with offshore wind where like the type of foundation that we prefer for like Wildlife purposes. That's quieter isn't that doesn't get a tax credit and hiring and I think we have to be willing to get to those like granular levels of like How are we incentivizing very specific things that that we need to do this and I think we have to make tough decisions. About the like the economic viability, you know, like inevitably I see a situation where like like my mother-in-law works at a chemical plant on the river. She's a nurse. She's worked there for decades. Um at what point, you know, as we incentivize these facilities to continue to exist and they beg for more incentives as their business case gets harder. Those are hard decisions to make right like that's politically really hard because you decide to cut some, you know, manufacturing facilities tax credit and they shut down that's thousands of jobs that don't exist. Ing, right like those are really hard political decisions to make but I also think that's one of those things like as we think about like how we're spending our dollars to to subsidize things to support things. We also have to make it hard decisions about where we pull back and I I can see that being an area That's essential any like way harder to do than figuring out how to like Target and give away incentives and so I I think all of those things really matter and I think more connectivity in general like we were really happy. The end Costco were really excited to help the state of Louisiana with Marine spatial planning to help them get a DOA Grant on citing for Renewables. Right? Like how are we actively facilitating those kind of connections through policy to ensure that like States are getting especially States like Louisiana and Texas right like the don't necessarily have the resources. They need to make the best possible decisions, but like are trying to draw down funds. How do we help them like draw down the funds and then actually use them. Really effectively. I think policies that help and support that are really valuable as well. That was a pretty Meandering answer. 
no, I really appreciate the like the Nuance that you can consider. gonna for each of these and it's so fast that you know, like because that's because that's what's really the case. It's like that so many of these decisions and these things come out to the specifics that there's land use cleaning up the local level and figuring out how to get these these broad vision mission from like, you know, Green energy transition. To work at a local level in the trade-offs along the way between states between jobs. The economics it gets so complex and difficult. 
Yeah, we can't really this is easy. 
Yeah. And and then you know like, you know, all of these have can can reinforce her help unto existing inequities that are in that. In the area just want to kind of kind of repeat the same thing. I really want to focus on that first because You have it works. So close in that but kind of the same Mission about you know, thinking about how potential management. could help optimize benefits or mitigate damages from some of these other impacts that we talked about some of them we talked about we talked, you know, like just now the climate jobs manufacturing and then also ecological migratory report Fisheries. 
yeah, and I mean I have to say like in general we I my colleagues think the Eurovision Energy Management student a pretty good job on on the wildlife front and I think in terms of policy decisions the ones that we've already made around trying to get ahead of as much of the environmental stuff through citing as we can on the early side incredibly beneficial right? Like it just sets us off on a good foot in terms of other things that I know we would like to see more of we would like to see a move towards. Boom offering bid credits, you know like they offer big credits for this last time around on for Fisheries mitigation. That's a good policy on the Fisheries front. And I think that's a that's a step in the right direction in terms of mitigating the Fisheries issues figuring out how to administer that I think it's the challenge and all of these things figuring out actually administer the challenging thing. Um, we would love to see and I would love to see big credits for environmental, you know, funding more science or paying into a mitigation fund or things like that great that give developers an opportunity to to put money into into those kinds of things we've asked for them. Times bomb is currently asking for comments on whether or not those should be offered in the future. We're enthusiastic about that. And I think that does you know, we've seen in the Gulf just what like money for the environment can do Post BP like with the right policies in place. You can do so much good restoration and management work. And so I think you know figuring out the ways that we direct resources to the specific problems and challenges is really important. I think We one of the the really big challenges is around the environmental issues. Right say we say we build our first set of wind farm in the Gulf of Mexico and we just like find out that like man. It is really impacting birds in ways that we did not foresee. We don't have great mechanisms for the Adaptive management for how do you like change the way those are permitted to operate based on additional information? We've all committed to the idea that like not we all have a lot of these little Community has committed to the idea that we need to move forward with this at the pace to meet the climate Challenge and that we will need to continue to learn from that and adaptively manage. I don't think we have the policies and structures in place to actually do that. Management so like one of the big open questions in the golfer on migratory Birds is we think most of the time that my jewelry birds are flying much higher than the height of turbines. Probably not an issue most of the time they fly a lot lower the weather's bad. And so how do we make decisions based There's a s*** ton of birds about to cross the golf. Oh look on the radar. in we got to turn off all these terms on? And there's the storm system blowing 
That though reminds me of another I think management decision. We have to figure out I've definitely heard from both Folks at boam and folks in the oil and gas industry and eagerness to figure out how to share more data in the Gulf of Mexico. There's a ton of proprietary data that bone holds from the oil and gas industry can some of that older data be released. Can we you know disaggregate data and share it more broadly. What are the options for doing that because we have a remarkably Rich data environmental of Mexico. It's just tied up in these proprietary. Contracts and things with with oil and gas companies and so in shovel has has expressed a willingness to try to figure out how we we do that better. There's challenges with like where you house that data, you know where it's all the data people. My husband's a data person are like, well, you know, like the units aren't the same and then you get like you have a hard time putting things 
Yeah. 
together, right? Like there's all this hard stuff that you actually have to deal with but I think that's an immense opportunity for a science entity a federal government entity to figure out how we can do that better. But you know, where do you put the data? How do you actually get it to where people can use it is gonna be really important because we've got it. Um Trying to think there are other things. Oh, I guess the other big thing in the Gulf of Mexico in terms of management decisions is you know, we're already sort of limiting ourselves in where we can put offshore wind and in the Gulf just because of all the existing and for structure right now, and I think we really do actually need to have a very serious conversation about decommissioning pipelines, especially or you know, do we dig up a certain number of the things that we chose to decommission in place, especially around pipelines because that would free up more space What are the environmental implications of like disturbing that bent that habitat? Like is it worth it? I think there's a lot of things to think about there. And that dovetails was I think the jobs conversation in the Gulf right? Like as we're transitioning oil and gas workers. Is there an opportunity for them the people who had jobs laying pipes to have jobs helping pull those pipes up like there's some some beneficial impacts that come from tackling that particular management question that I think could really help in the the space of using energy transition. 
that is a lot and that's super confront of I'm still taking it. how are you looking well because I've been doing this with I think enough with Will to think that like this is gonna be a beautiful conceptual model but a lot of things 
Okay. 
are recovered to how are you looking well, 
Sorry, this is a really good one. I don't have any Islands right now. So I'm feeling pretty good. I don't have any direct follow-ups. 
This may be like the first opportunity that my like I don't really have an answer. I have a lot of questions thinking is super valuable. 
Yeah, no, that's that's the beauty of this approach in this. This sort of methodology, right and and it kind of speaks the unique opportunity that we have as a federal agency that has resources and funding to do some science to either answer some of these questions are reinforced or dispel preconceived notions things like that. I don't think we take it lightly, but that's why when I say the top of every interview the questions and the things you're wondering about are just as important as the things that you know about. 
Yeah. 
Because it's gonna either reinforce things that we're pulling out of the literature or things that we know from our experiences and other places or give us new ideas to play around within pass up to leadership. It's so funny what you're saying about the big credits. I was like, it sounds like literally talking to John Walter who's the science director for the southeast History Science Center. I I think you you and him have said like the exact same thing about the big credits. It's so funny. 
well, that's good to know. I don't work on the biggest credits my public cheated us. So I'm probably just like taking her language on It ultimately but yeah. 
 
