first question It's this is the biggest I guess when you think about your area of expertise, which I think is permitting but reach back as far as you feel comfortable in your professional expertise. What are some of the benefits to having after wind as part of the Gulf of Mexico? I'm sorry some of the ecosystem service benefits that. Are part of the Gulf of Mexico that might be changed by offshore wind. 
So, what do you mean by ecoSystem benefits? 
so ecosystem service benefits things like recreational fishing or number of jobs that are supported by the environment that whole realm of things that bent people benefit from that they derive from the Gulf of Mexico. 
Got it. Yeah, I think there's some great synergies in the Gulf of Mexico between offshore wind and the existing ocean industries that occur there, you know people talk about an energy transition in the Gulf of Mexico and folks like to call it kind of an energy Edition. The only gas industry has been around there for you know, 60 plus years and as well established and there's a lot of know how but you know as things change and renewable energy becomes more prominent. There is a huge opportunity for the Gulf of Mexico to be leaders in offshore wind in particular. So, you know vessels that currently work on oil and gas can either work on offshore wind as is or go through some retrofitting to be part of that industry. you know, there's we've we've talked to recreational fishermen in the Gulf of Mexico who talk about how when structures have been decommissioned there. It's kind of led to you know, kind of a desert landscape and some of the fish species they used to have access to are gone offshore wind has the ability to rebuild that so if you add in those offshore wind structures into the water, we're only gas platforms used to be you could have that artificial Reef effect. And so I think there's a great benefit for those who make their living on the water fishing getting additional structure in there. And then and those who you know currently service oil and gas vessels could Service Officer wind vessels or after a wind structures and those who are just in the oil and gas industry as a whole can now work on the offshore wind industry, whether it's constructing foundations, like the ones that work out for Black Island, you know, we're we're building the golf so that can happen for offshore wind as well. Right from it in the golf specifically. And then, you know boats that install these can be built or retrofitted in the Gulf. So I think there's a lot of opportunities to kind of augment the existing industries that are there and and AD offer when to their portfolios. 
Yeah, that makes sense. You mentioned the wreck fishing and the structures that they require. Can you talk a little bit more about how that might work like Are there specific types of structure that the fish like to hang around or where in particular in the Gulf you're thinking? 
Oh the example I was using was kind of a western Gulf thing where the the recreational fisherman I talked to talk about how decommissioned platforms and they kind of lost. You know, that those those great reefs that were there that had a lot of fish aggregate. I think you know, I think that any kind of structure in the water would provide habitat, but there are things you can do with some of your scour protection their companies in Europe who are designing specifics our protections Target certain species. So you try to replicate the habitat for what certain species like depending on what's you know, native to the area or what you're trying to attract and so there's some ability there, you know, if you're going into a habitat and one of the concerns we often hear from Noah is that you know, you're you're creating a reef, but it's not Suitable for this particular species. It's there unless it meets these specifications. So we don't know how many benefits will be. But if you're if you're designing the scour protection to meet some of those specifications at that species needs to make that their habitat, then you can kind of bridge some of that Gap. And so that's that's some potential there. And I think that's kind of what would benefit commercial recreational fisherman if you if you did some of that. 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. It's really cool. You just brought up commercial fishing. So that's gonna be my next question. Does it work the same for them or is the mechanism of benefits a little bit different or what do you think? 
If so for commercial fishing, there's there's a few things citing is very important. So trying to First avoid areas where they fish the most is is kind of the number one thing that that is done by by bone Noah and the officer wind industry, but once you've cited areas, you know, it's a kind of a possible to find an area that where there's no fishing. And also you have to keep in mind, you know the cost of energy if you just eliminate everything you can't have an industry with all the benefits that come with it and or you're having crazy prices for rate payers. So you want to have a balance of that and so once you you cited in an area where they're maybe some fishing you really need to start talking about spacing between turbines and their orientation and then that's really working with with Noah and the fishing Community to figure out exactly what gear type is being used and what kind of spacing would be most compatible and you know That's and there's a lot of communication that needs to be done as well Fisheries communication plans history Representatives Fisheries Liaisons, and all of that is, you know, great and that's kind of that avoidance and mitigation. But at some point, you know, you've you've avoided as much as you can you mitigated as much as you can and there may still be losses to fisherman. And so what the industry wants is is for them to be able to be made whole and so that's where Fisheries compensation comes in place and what is being worked on in the Atlantic which I think it's a great example for the golf is a regional fisheries compensation fund where it's not just every project making agreements with fisherman in a specific state. And then you know of fishermen from Texas will have to go through this fund and a fisherman from Louisiana will have to go through this fund or for this project. You have to work with that, you know developer and for that this other project you have to work with the different one really just having a One-Stop shop that all the states buy 
Oh. 
into that has Financial certainty because it's fed into through bidding credits at an auction. And that is kind of the model we're working on in in the Northeast and so I think establishing something like that in the Gulf would be really great. And it it really can the fun can do a lot of things it can the most obvious thing is I used to fish here. I caught you know a million dollars last year and this year. I caught 900,000 I need compensation for that 100,000 that I didn't catch and I can directly attribute it to the Wind Facility. That's the you know, the most obvious one. Then there's obviously gear loss. I was you know, dragging here. I caught the scour protection for your cable and my gear got disconnected and I need compensation for my $10,000 pot. That's it. That's one there, but then there's also the potential for these funds to Have people upgrade their gear so they can use a different gear type that maybe more compatible to use within a win facility. And so paying for that makes a lot of sense because it allows them to you know, fish where they traditionally do continue doing what they're doing, but have upgraded gear type. That's more compatible. So those are kind of three things. We see for a compensation fund. 
That's awesome. Yeah, I agree. That would have great applications in the Gulf. I'm gonna Circle back for a minute to what you started with the diversification of energy in the gulf and you mentioned things like using the same vessels and maybe even the same sites that oil and gas had left behind. Just wanted to delve into that a little more. Can you think of any more direct connections or specifics of how that might play out? 
I know that there are that's happening. There are vessels in that are have been used in the Gulf of Mexico for oil and gas that are currently being retrofitted to to work in the offer wind industry. I think Crowley is a company that's doing that and there's some others the candies I think are some of the other ones so there's there's a few of those that do that and I think that's a that's a big thing also called violent fabrication yards was the one who did Block Island. So the expertise is there and I think it's a matter of having that certainty of this is actually happening in the Gulf for them to put those resources towards it and I think some of those ships in the golf are gonna be used in the Atlantic industry, but then for the golf, it just has to have you have to at least sales plan submitted an actual timeline for when that's gonna come online. And I know that's also State projects in Louisiana, they're talking about so that's another opportunity. And we're a little less involved with that but maybe more in the future. 
that makes sense. This is a bit of a naive question I guess but the state projects are they a lot of the same gear in people that the offshore ones would be or is it kind of separate? 
It should be pretty similar. 
Okay. 
Yeah, it's it it may be. like Shallower water so less steel required for foundations, maybe some flexibility and Foundation type, but it's probably gonna be monopiles and or jackets and same kind of thing you same turbines same needs for construction that you'll see further offshore. 
That makes sense. All right, next question thinking outside your main area of expertise. What else? Do you know or think might change about the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem as a result of offshore wind development? So kind of anything else. 
um Yeah it I think there's a lot of different things people think will happen think may happen to the ecosystem. But there's a lot of great studies that that show that it's it's not likely the hydro Dynamics issue an ocean currents issue comes up a lot in the Northeast. There was a great National Academy of Science Study that came out as well as the white paper. We did that shows that just the the natural and seasonal forces as well as climate change would make any kind of a change from officer. In perceptible, there's more research that needs to be done. But the experts on it don't don't know. If you could even detect an offshore wind change due to just a seasonal natural variations. So, um, that's you know people get worried about that, but that's from And not doesn't seem like as big of an issue is as some thought. I think there's there's some really interesting things when you use the epa's Cobra model and look at air quality and the amount of healthcare costs saved and the amount of lives saved when you put an offer when project up so I think that's that's an interesting kind of human ecosystem thing to look at and and then, you know, obviously the artificial Reef effects you're you're going to have areas where there may not be as much, you know fish fish attraction now and they're they're will be more when those are built and I think the golf already has a lot of experience with that so he is kind of new and and different as it is in the Northeast. other ecosystem Yeah, I mean. It it's hard to say that there would be you know, major ecosystem changes. I think if you build out the offshore wind industry fully, you know, you could start making a difference in climate change. And so that's obviously a big one probably the biggest one possible and 
Yeah. 
that's that's kind of why all this is happening, but that's kind of a 
smaller level you see those air quality benefits on the ground. 
I was gonna ask I'm not familiar with the Cobra model Are there specific aspects of air quality they look at or Spatial Arrangements. 
There's a lot they look at. 
How does it work? 
all types of different elements of emissions so, you know I'm blanking on the exact scientific terms, but like sulfur and and different things that are emitted by traditional power plants you input the size of the facility being built what's going to produce and where it's going? And so then that kind of impacts what it would be offsetting and then it projects what that would mean for the next on an annual basis and you can project that out basically the life of the project. And for the Northeast projects, it's 
cool 
hundreds of millions of dollars in healthcare savings per year avoided healthcare costs and That's the hundreds of live saved and then when you look at it, the 30 year lifespan of a project that can get in the billions and lots more live save. So it's very interesting very interesting to look at and it can change based off where you put the project if you're putting a project in an area with more renewable mix than on this less of those kind of direct benefits, but if you put it somewhere where there's a lot of some of the more dirty fossil fuel energy production, then it increases but it's all based off at epa's Copper model. 
very cool I have to take a look at that in more detail. All right. So the next question is thinking about I guess circling back. We've kind of talked about the effects and how they all work. So now from your perspective what management actions And this is thinking again anything out there doesn't have to necessarily be realistic would be able to affect the relationships that we talked about. You talked a little bit about spacing and gear types and things like that. But anything else that you haven't touched on. 
management action, so It there's a lot of talk about where you come like where you make landfall come to shore things like that. So there there needs to be a real good planning process for that. Make sure you're not affecting, you know, any Entre resources seagrass things like that. So trying to avoid that when making landfall I think as far as management, there's there's lots of different mitigation measures that that get applied. So obviously in the Northeast the North Atlantic right whale is a big concern in the golf Out imagine the rice as well is going to be a concern. So there are measures to reduce impacts from Red mammals. There's often seasonal research on pile driving. different distances where you have to have observers out to and noise attenuation devices to reduce the noise such as bubble curtains things like that. So there's there's certainly going to be a lot of mitigation measures around whales and and potentially other species. So those are management actions that a lot of the afterwind industry voluntarily does and then other measures are are put on as a result of Esa or mmpa consultations. 
makes sense that is all of our questions gonna look back at the screen through well to see if you have any follow-up or clarifying things that we talked 
Yeah. 
about so far. 
No, this is this isn't good. It's really comprehensive the one. question I have has a little bit to do with sort of the use of existing Workforce or economic infrastructure that you reference at the beginning and the Retro fitting in vessels and I would imagine the utilization of local workforces in the Gulf of Mexico. Do you expect that there would need to be some sort of management intrusion to sort of jump start that that process. of an energy transition or is that something that you would imagine local economies would Sort of adapt to on their own or RDR. 
Yeah, I I think it it's kind of a story of if you build that they will come kind of thing. If you if there's a supply if there's a certainty on projects that are in the pipeline you have that pipeline. Down the road. Then the workforce will develop there are things that people in the Northeast have done to try to jump start that a lot of in state investments in facilities and ports to accommodate the officer wind industry and a lot of community colleges starting, you know offshore wind programs where they're training workers. So there is that kind of domestic Workforce that is been trained to do the job so you don't have to bring people over. And so that's a big thing. I think it would dovetail really well with the you know expertise that's already available in the call from and you have a huge Workforce that's knows how to work offshore knows how to build structures offshore and knows how to service them. So you could you know, just train update their training with Usher wind if that was kind of things were available to them and I think that would make a lot of sense. I think the kind of the pipeline of projects is the biggest thing that drives Supply chains but States and the government have do have a role to play there and it does help when they make those kind of Investments and attracts. Attract businesses to establish locations there, you know, it's you can have a blade facility or a tower facility. That's that's being built. Or a cable manufacturing facility. We've seen some of those things happen in the Northeast and even you know in Massachusetts building, you know, the Marine Commerce terminal in New Bedford, you know the state really putting the money out there to to revitalize an area of a port make it specific cross for wind and then signing contracts with developers to use it and I think that's something that the golf States could do if they were interested in it. 
fantastic, I think that that was like 
make sense 
the one the one thing that I wanted a little bit of clarification on but yeah, that's why I 
Yeah, do you have anything else any other thoughts that we haven't fully explored on your end? 
Yeah, I think the unique thing about officer wind, especially, you know outside of state waters is that it's all dependent on federal permitting. So onshore wind entrance solar all of those things you can you know Talk to a farmer by you know, at least some of their private land you have some local permits. Maybe you have some consultations for endangered species, but it's not all dependent on the federal government and you can usually get a project through State processes. The Australian industry is 100% dependent on the federal government and federal agencies. And so it really isn't coming up on them to have an olive government approach and we see it from time to time in the Northeast but it hasn't really 100% come together and there are instances where you have different conditions for different consultations that when put together make a project on buildable time of year restrictions for you know a certain species overlap with time of year restrictions for pile driving for whales and then when you put them together, there's no time when you can actually build a project or just you know, like thousands of conditions on a project hundreds of reports and plans. You need to make that and make it really arguous to build and as you can see with the financial challenges and the industry on these are the kind of things that can make a project not viable. So I think that the good thing about the golf is first of all, Noah has a very strong history working with industry offshore that doesn't exist in the Northeast. So I think there's a big Advantage for the golf Folks at Noah that have that experience. To kind of understand that about working with an industry in a business so that will help but that would be the kind of thing. I would really implore the agencies to do is to kind of have that fresh start and work with the industry on measures that will protect the environment but also allow the industry to be viable and I think you know, if you if you work with the industry early on you can get there most of the members I work with are know marine biologists in their previous life and they're very interested in protecting the whales they don't want to hurt them or Fisheries biologists and they they know this stuff like the back of their hand and they want to come up with Solutions. So I think there can be a great working relationship there. It's just has to start early and with projects not solidifying their plans yet that is essential and and same with with cables to shore that's kind of the first thing that developers start to plan. They have to make deals with sometimes with private landowners with the state and it's very difficult. Once something is proposed and locked in on to change it. And so there there's a lot of things there's a lot of trust resources that know is interested in when it comes to cables to Shore and so getting getting folks together ahead of time. So developer can say here's what we're thinking, you know, and and then your experts can chime in and say well, you know that's going through this sensitive habitat and have you thought about another place where else can this go to get to get to the same thing and and kind of coming up with some of those Alternatives that'll be analyzed in consultations and and the NEPA document getting that early in the process. It's something that poem is implementing, you know, boom Noah and their implementing in the Northeast now, but it took a lot of trial and error to get there but Identifying those cable Landing Alternatives early and being part of and that makes you the federal government's part of that process because the members or the the developers are they're really thinking about okay. I have to get to Shore and I have to find a way that works and we can acquire the land but they're not always thinking about the you know, specific environments that they're going into and they don't have that on the ground. Now, it's that, you know, folks who have spent their lives studying and protecting you so it's it's just a real huge advantage to get everyone together super early on that. It'll just prevent a lot of headaches in the future. 
I was going to say I I really appreciate that comment and sentiment especially because we are trying to model aspects of the the process. In our conceptual model as well and just the nature of a lot of stakeholders that we have been talking about it it has a lot to do with stakeholder engagement and and sort of access to the federal processes. I do think giving your backgrounds. You have a unique perspective about some of the intricacies and the steps required at the the sort of interagency level that are also valid recommendations and gaps that we intend to bring back to the the Patriot Science Center and those obviously get pass along but it's it's also kind of a unique time to be reflecting on those processes because we do have the opportunity to view the the Noah and Bone relationships in the Northeast and the Gulf of Mexico and and the California Current independently and we've seen what works in certain processes and what ads and and so it is kind of a good time to be doing this reflecting and take stock of a sort of do's and don'ts list for lack of better term. 
Absolutely. There's you know going first is never easy. There's always gonna be bumps in the road, especially when it's just a you know industry is a whole is kind of new to the Northeast where it in the 
Yeah. 
golf. It certainly isn't even the Pacific they have oil and gas platforms there and they're they've had that you know relationship for a long time and that history so I think it's gonna be easier in the golf, but there's still lots of lessons learned to incorporate to make sure you know, it's as smooth as possible. 
Um, is there anything else off the top of your head that you would like to be included in your mental model that you haven't had a chance to touch on? 
I think stakeholder Outreach is obviously very important early and often. I don't know how much you get into kind of tribal Outreach and those kind of things. That's that can be a tricky one and it there's there's certainly a rule for industry. But the tribes I've interacted with really want the federal government to be friends center with a lot of that because you know, it is a government to government relationship. So there there needs to be a strong Federal role and then having the developers incorporated into it and and letting the tribes kind of lead on how they want that to look. So, you know boom has required travel communication plans now and so there's there it's getting Incorporated more in there. But anything the government can do to kind of work with tribes early in the process would certainly be beneficial. 
Absolutely. Great I've got. 
Account only last thing I'd say is tribal capacity building is a big lesson learned from from the Northeast. in that We would meet with tribes. We tell them about you know, here's our environmental impact statement or here is our Federal Register notice you have 30 days to comment and this day of one tribal stored preservation officer who's working on every single thing that happens in there in in their land. And so they don't have the time but sometimes they don't have the expertise to comment on these very complicated environmental documents. So capacity building provides funds for them to hire Consultants that can review these documents and provide comments and represent their interests or you know, just compensating them for their time things like that. So, That is probably more of a boom comment. And I know they're doing it in the Northeast but it it has to happen early. You can't have you can't start talking about capacity building after you have a draftee is out there because you have to find a way to secure the funds give those funds the tribes and then have them higher consultant and have a consultant read the documents that all this stuff just has to happen early and in order for it to be effective. 
Right. I think that's a fantastic Edition and management recommendations for bone and other federal agencies are completely on board as well. We we have those folks involved in the project. Luckily and the hope is that a lot of these takeaways aren't just no specific that we'll be able to pass them along to our interagency partners and take like you said more that all government approach. that you mentioned earlier, but at this point I'm going to 
