The Fishery independent service so my job for no officeries is to basically take a bird's eye view and look at all of our programs across all the science centers. And try to you know during timescales look into the future and see where it makes sense to maybe try a new like flexible design or incorporate a new sampling tool and where it doesn't and then, you know also come up with strategies to optimize our effort today including helping groups communicate and collaborate things like that. So that's that's my job and my background is I guess you would say in like fish population Dynamics things like species distribution modeling like yeah, I don't know things like that fish prop die everything from like fish life history to to population distributions kind of done a little bit of everything. 
Awesome. Well, thank you. And at this point we'll sell through start the recording after all the 
Okay. 
so you know. It's great to hear fish stocks and distribution. I'm sure you'll have a lot to say so thinking about. fish stocks and species distribution What are some of the Dynamics of that that you think might change as a result of offshore wind? I know that's a big question. 
well, I think yeah, I think especially in the Gulf of Mexico. We have like a really interesting opportunity to leverage the literature the extensive literature that's present about oil and gas platforms. And you know, if I had to guess I would say there wouldn't be this fundamental shift in fish distribution or population parameters as a result of the you know installation of All these structures because it's kind of something that the ecosystem has already in terms of oil and gas platforms. Now the actual construction itself might have some effects where you're disrupting movement patterns or residency or whatever, but in over the long term, you know, I would expect to see similar Trends to what you see in oil and gas platforms, which is a high number of individuals at a high diversity of species exhibiting relatively High sitesability to these really these high relief unique Types of structures so I yeah anyway, I think to summarize it the construction of the structures would expect some probably deleterious impacts, but over the long term probably similar things will be seated with oil gas platforms. 
Yeah, that makes sense delving that into that a little bit more. Is that true for I said fish but could you delve into a little bit more about is might that differ between different types of fish or different parts of their? Little ecosystem and think about it geographically too. So my Texas be the same as if we did it for the east 
Yeah, I mean this that's a that's a really good question. I think there's again like we can draw on the literature from the oil and gas. You know studies and certainly you've got reef fish like like red snapper. For example, this is what we know the most about in the goals for better for worse. And like it's like age two to four Snapper are they they really are highly associated with with you all and gas platforms that part of their their life cycle. And so we would expect the same. You know with with wind turbines and things but you've got other sort of. More pelagic fish like king mackerel, for example, which aren't necessarily Associated as a rule with those types of structures. But in fact they do frequently visit them and things like that. So it's a it's a question of like site Fidelity. I think so you've got like little tiny refesh that are you know, they're larvae and eggs are addicted from the Caribbean that kind of settle on there and they never move to like a red snapper which spends part of its life cycle associated with the structure but also can tend to Rove around the surrounding area and go between platforms to something like a king mackerel which is you know, largely Traverse in the open ocean, but stopping by these rigs presumably to feed or do something else. I think it's feeding But anyway, it's really a question of like the site Fidelity and behavior of the fish is not going to be Universal. 
That makes sense. all right, so thinking outside of fish and your main area of expertise what else do you know or think might change about the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem as a result of offshore wind and like you said, maybe split that into construction and operation. 
Yeah, I mean. Presumably this the structures themselves once they're conducted are going to have some sort of impact on. Like circulation hydrodynamics. I don't really know what those would be. But I just am guessing. I think the primary thing that would get influenced in both the construction and the long-term phase is the way that humans interact with the ocean. Because right now, you know, you're not really supposed to fish off of the, you know near the oil and gas structures, but people do anyway. I presume that this might be I actually don't know if it's going to be similar or not on wind turbines. I hear that. They're also going to be a sort of excluded. But maybe like the actual turbine spinning will you know be more get people more pause to like tie up to the structure. Even if it's like a high clearance. Maybe it's gonna be unpleasant to be right under it. Um, and so you could potentially look at a an exclusion of fishers from a large area of you know, prime fishing habitat and a lot of other things depend on where exactly they go. Like. Is it on a mud bottom. Is it on sort of a low profile Rocky Reef area which are you know, pretty important in the Gulf of Mexico for Um recruitment of you know juvenile fish and things like that. but yeah, I mean certainly like the the construction aspect of it will be disruptive in terms of noise and sediment suspension and things like that which will impact everything from marine mammals to like vital point in 
Yeah, could you double a little bit more into that last thought the will impact everything and I guess thinking about construction is the most disruptive part of this process. What are those actual processes that are going to get? adapted 
yeah, I mean, I guess like if there's some if there's significant sediment resuspension at a really large scale that could influence like, you know planktonic productivity which could have cascading effects the ecosystem. That's probably unlikely. I mean that's a scale at which it would really it would probably be local effects which would get sort of mitigated through. circulation and stuff I guess I'm thinking also of like the you know in the Gulf we have like a hypoxic dead zone which forms seasonally at the mouth of the Mississippi that sort of area, you know, if we're talking about like impacts from Changing water circulation or like construction activities? Potentially it can mix up that water better. which might actually have some positive impacts depending on who you ask like of you know reducing The Dead Zone if 
yeah. 
you're like promoting the circulation of water, but I think a lot of that probably has to do with sediment resuspension and the scale at which that occurs when you're talking about like the lower trophic levels and when you're talking about the higher traffic levels, if you're doing pile driving and things like that, you could injure brain mammals or like shift their distributions and they may that which may affect their like mating behavior and migratory patterns and things like that. I don't know if that answers your question. Just kind of spitballing here. 
Yeah, that's exactly what we want this bit falling. I see well furiously adding nodes to our model so You hit the nail on the head. 
cool 
I want to go back to something. You said about mud bottom versus hard bottom. And again, this might be further spitballing and speculation. But can you delve into that a little bit more? What would the differences in the effects be depending on bottom type? Do you think? 
Yeah, I mean so like the mud bottom habitats in the Gulf are really important for things like shrimp which are it's a huge fishery. It's the base of a lot of traffic webs. I think are not maybe not the base but a lower component in terms of like order and not important. And so potentially if you're disrupting like their foraging and living grounds, I mean that could have effects that Cascade through the trophic web. I don't really know anything about their association with structures, but I'm pretty sure it's just Mud bottom and things like that. So presumably you'd be reducing their habitat. And if you're replacing the sort of low profile Rocky reefs with you know, high profile. structures I mean You know. Maybe that would have an effect on like fish recruitment. It's hard to say, I mean the important thing is the hard structure, but then when you're getting these little like red snapper again, for example, just because we know so much about them. They recruit to these Little Rock piles. Basically that might be like six inches of relief and it might be like one cinder block type size Rock but there's like a little crevice in there so they can hide it's kind of remarkable how much like a little piece of exposed bottom will hold a huge amount of fish in the middle of a mudflat or something. To visit those habitat straight out to be pretty important and I don't it's sort of a one-to-one substitution with like a high vertical relief platform and that type of habitat. I think they're both valuable, but I think they might serve different purposes for different life history stages and species. 
yeah, that totally makes sense. Alright before we move on to the next and the section of our little model. Is there any thing else you can think of effects wise that you've heard ecosystem wide that you'd like to get into your brainstorm list. 
One of the really interesting things is like and it you know, it occurs now, but if the you know wind infrastructure gets more distributed, even than oil and gas platforms is like the connection with climate change and shifting distributions. Like it's been hypothesized that these structures sort of serve as little stations for jumping off for that ex that like, you know 
ah 
expansion so you could have Caribbean refresh that otherwise wouldn't be able to make the journey into the Gulf of Mexico. That if you've got this network of wreath habitat could potentially make a jump or you know, it might not be one individual but over generation. So the Next Generation larvae is going affected to a platform further north and then they spawn there and then it gets further and further where if those structures weren't there. Maybe that wouldn't happen. I think that's one of the really 
Yeah. 
interesting things and then of course like in the goal. Can only move so far north. So what happens then is a separate question, but certainly from the Caribbean. northward structures can facilitate range expansions of of refresh that might otherwise not be able to 
very cool That's not one that had been on our list yet. Now, I'm thinking about it or up the East Coast where they can just keep 
there's a paper. 
on going. 
Yeah, they can just keep on going there. I'm trying to think of this paper. I think like arisman and Ash oh, this is this is like it wasn't particularly about this. Anyway, this was about spawning aggregations being a bottleneck for like climate change impacts on on you know refish, but I think maybe in the 
Gotcha. 
discussion of that paper they mentioned like in the Gulf that golf Caribbean interface about how these You know habitats could be a connection. That's at least something that that those researchers were working on at some point. I don't know if they published on it. 
interesting All right. Well on that note about what might we be able to do. That's my next question. So from your perspective what management actions might be able to affect the relationships that we just talked about. Anything in particular and this doesn't have to be realistic so find the sky, too. 
I think it should be really clear how the public can interact with the structures. I'm thinking specifically of fishing. Yeah, there should be no ambiguity about like if you're allowed to fish there or not. And like to the degree to which it's safe, I would hope that people are able to you know, fully utilize the habitat for their. to make their living if their commercial Fishers or to you know, enjoy their resources if they're recreational. I think that there's going to be big problems, especially if the commercial well, I I don't think it's just ridiculous commercial sector if you can't fish on those On those structures you're going to have big problems from like a management. Side of you because people are just going to ignore it. And then you're going to have like winners and losers based on their rule following Tendencies. So that's one thing. I think it's probably obvious to say like, you know don't disrupt. unique and critical habitats with the 
Oh. 
like, I mean that's gonna happen anyway. And in terms of like that's gonna be a consideration that people make anyway and that replies to like migratory corridors for protected species and stuff. I mean that's kind of like a low-hanging fruit. But for me the most obvious one is How does the public interact with the structures and then also what happens to them at the end of their life? Is that's a big question with the oil and gas infrastructure. And the most common way to do it is to just blow the legs off with explosive charges. 
cool 
and you know, that's like Lethal to everything around there's been studies on this and like, you know, it's it's not a good outcome. But then you know in an ideal sense, maybe you would leave it up, but then who takes the responsibility. For lighting it up because it's a navigational Hazard. And if you in a less invasive way cut off the legs or topple the platform. You still have to make sure that all lines with. navigation laws and then who pays to do it the more expensive less disruptive way. So figuring out a cost structure or like a responsibility for decommissioning and then ideally procedures that are least disruptive to Life, you know that would be beneficial and then I just remembered one more thing which is like there should be it should be really clear that. I you know this made more Pie in the Sky scientists should be able to put instruments on these platforms and it should be like up to the I think as part of the permitting process that's just part of the deal if you want to build platform. You have to put a solar panel on there and then we can put a ctd or something like or even you know, like an echo Sounder like that should be part of the the barrier to entry in terms of getting a lease should be like the scientists have to put their information instrumentation to monitor. the communities of organisms and oceanographic conditions on there in any sorts of environmental impact studies like pre-posts. kind of stuff should be conducted 
well 
from like a unified coordinated manner so that the methodology is consistent. You can actually draw some inferences across the the ocean Basin rather than just like, oh that was there but we can't compare it with what was 200 meters away because they use different gears. They didn't calibrate. So we should have a strategy for. For monitoring that's comprehensive and again built into the permitting language and stuff if it's up to me. 
Yeah, that would be awesome. Like you said, that's not how oil and 
I agree. 
gas has gone. So we shall see. 
No, and it's not how it's going in the Northeast now either like they're just kind of they're kind of filling in some of the stuff on the back end with the newest contracts, but it's kind of the Wild West in terms of like can you interact the platform? Can you put stuff on it? How are you doing it before and after impact studies. So I think we can learn a lot from like the way that that's developed in the lessons that they've learned along the way. 
Yeah learning from existing too. I think it's a good one. I had two unrelated thoughts the first going back to your comment about commercial versus recreational fishing. Is that a sector potential trade-off or how much of that is due to different gears and how that might affect your interactions with the turbines themselves. 
Well, I think like a lot of it has to do with the like activism and power of each group more than anything. I think in the Gulf, especially the recreational Fishers have immense political capital and power and often their consideration supersede the commercial sector at least in terms of like what sorts of things get attention. um, they're definitely is that your component about like you're never going to be able to trawl right next to the Rigs but most of the commercial fishing that's not shrimp or for any sort of bait is on like Bandit gear like just lowering down. and a line with many Hooks and then you know when she get up basically or long line, which is again just align with many hooks that you could definitely set right next to a Wind platform. I mean there'd be no issues with that. These guys are really skilled and so in a way that those types of years when you're talking about and again, like, you know think about fish primarily you're talking about fish that recreationals and the commercials operate more or less the same except for the commercials do it at scale. And so it I think it really comes down to the political like weight they can throw around and often. It's the recreational sector that has more of a weight which is kind of I don't know unexpected if you think about it on the face of it, but that's the way it goes in the golf in my experience. 
Yes. They have more time. 
right 
Yeah, my roommate in grad school, this is a bit of an aside did a whole her whole dissertation on Commercial versus recreational narratives and how it played out in the politics in North Carolina. So thank you hit the nail the head 
hmm 
wouldn't go so far 
That's interesting. 
unexpected. But yeah, that's why I asked that question. I was thinking about her gear versus what group you hang out with and how do those trade-offs work? My other question was totally unrelated but on the decommissioning side, you mentioned things like navigation and how you physically do it, but thinking back to how we were talking about. Direction to do you think? What other effects on like hydrodynamics or fish distribution are there lessons from decommissioned oil rigs that we should be thinking about for? Weight on the line for what? 
To be the Deep the decommissioning specifically. I mean there's a lot of literature on rigsteriefs and like, you know how that can be an option. And yeah, like lots of comparisons between artificial and natural reefs Etc specifically looking at decommissioned. Platforms which are just like knocking them over basically, so I 
right 
think I would expect similar. Things to be with a wind turbine the oil and gas platform. 
Okay. 
Yeah. 
Just wanted to hear you say that that's where I thought we were going, but just checking in. 
right 
I've hit all of my questions. I don't know. Well if you've picked up any hanging things. 
I have one so for most of the interview which has been excellent. You've had your Fisheries population Dynamics and distribution hat on. Could you put your survey mitigation and Survey planning hat on and and maybe think about effects and sort of those those connections from that perspective. I know you talked about it a little bit unmanagement question, but is there anything? Explicitly that you're concerned about in your current like professional capacity that might change as well. So the offshore wind construction operation. 
yeah, I mean a lot of our fishery independent surveys are based upon consistency in execution of a sampling design over a specific area. And if you exclude a particular type of vessel or a particular gear from those areas, you know, it messes with your times series. If you're not able to plan in advance and calibrate between approaches we're working on as an agency I think to get Better at being adaptable it including incorporating different estimation methods going more towards multiplatform multi-gear surveys, but this is not something we can do overnight. And so, you know, there's the gulf has a number of long-standing trawl surveys that stand to be disrupted. I think actually not that much by what's planned right now. We're looking at overlaps in the order of like 1% between survey area and wind lease areas, like at least from the figures that I've seen of like current leases, but if we're talking about like future considerations, I mean, it's potentially a big impact. I will say that the gulf is better equipped to adapt than say the Northeast is because the gulf we have long term trap or video surveys is pretty common in the goal video in long line. And and that sort of thing is more common in the Gulf than in the Northeast where you get most of your information from bottom troll surveys. So presumably you could adapt the video survey or the long line survey to operate within the wind areas. And you know again, this is where that connection with the oil and gas structures comes into the researchers know how to sample those areas pretty well already. And so if they can get in there, they should be able to apply that same sort of Methodology in there but it does stand to disrupt the trial surveys which are long-standing throughout the Gulf. and important so Again, this is another thing where if you're changing your methodologies or something like that. You have to have sufficient. Notice and resources to calibrate between what you're going to do and what you've been doing, which is really difficult to do in practice in 
Perfect. 
our like sort of resource constrained 
Yeah, that that is kind of. 
environment. 
The extent of my questions related to what you talked about and this was fantastic. Do you have any other thoughts or questions that maybe we're lingering that you didn't get a chance to? Talk about are you feeling good? 
I think that was good for you guys. 
awesome 
Yeah fun to sort of spitball and pontificate for a little bit. 
Yeah. All right. Well, I'm gonna turn the recording off then and then I'll just do a little bit of 
