Person personable identifying information. But yeah, we'll start the official questions. So first questions when you think about apex predators and impacts to Offshore win what benefits do they provide the Gulf of Mexico that could be impacted by offshore wind? 
The benefits of the wind energy industry or the benefits of the birds or the apex predators. 
Birds your apex predators 
Okay, um, well they they help regulate and balance certain ecosystem interactions. They also are a source of great interest and bird watching or extremely popular and the gulf is known to be a great bird watching area. It's actually for for migration. The Gulf of Mexico is kind of the entrance Door. Into North America, but both in Spring and fall the number of birds that cross the Gulf of Mexico is huge. So there's really kind of two ways to think. There's the the migratory birds that use the gulf to Transit it. And then of course. The adjacent land where they stop rest and feed and then there's the Marine birds that come and use the natural resources of the ocean itself. And what's really cool about that is that the species that do so come from all over the world they come from as far away as the South Atlantic the Arctic. the Mediterranean and the macaronisian archipelagos off Western Europe the West Indies and Caribbean some breed in the Gulf of Mexico, but a big percentage of them come from elsewhere in the world. So it's a Kind of a really key Junction for a lot of bird use and it's quite the hot spot. 
okay, so throughout this I'll probably reiterate some of the parts that you said just to make sure I'm getting everything so you mentioned bird watching some more of the human Dimension side of the tourism aspect as well as environmental regulation and the specific area being very important. 
It is right. And if of all those I might say that the regional importance of the Gulf of Mexico for actually the global or at least hemispheric importance is probably way at the top. the socioeconomic things would be a fair ways down at number two and then the right the the sort of ecosystem interactions and synergies aspect would probably be even lower the If you had to pick one thing about birds in the Gulf of Mexico, it's it's the importance of it for feeding and migration. 
Time so we won't make you pick one thing. We appreciate you waiting your your topics. All right. So that's great. Thank you for identifying those. So now moving on to question two thinking about all the specific topics. You just listed how specifically do you think offshore wind energy both in the operation and in the construction phase could impact those separate areas. 
Ah, that's a great question, um I I you know, I would put the how construction and operations would affect. the bird watching aspect I've put that aside for now. Okay as as either not. Not observable not relatable not. hard to judge just put it over there and park it. So the two that jump out at me are the other two the regional importance of it. And then the ecosystem aspects now I my mind is literally going in 12 different directions here because I love examples and analogies. So if that's not what you want this 
Take your time. 
redirect Okay, so 
Take your time. 
So construction and operations are for birds. are bifurcated Quite strongly the wide consensus. Is that construction? Yeah, it's a thing we got to watch it, but that you know, it's temporary and then once we're done with it. This that most of the attention is shifted to operations. So let's take construction first for both migratory Birds. and seabirds that use the area to feed then I'll Then I'll treat operations. the worst risk in the Gulf of Mexico the big risk Is the extra lighting that will happen during construction the concentrated lights because you need them to work with and if you have 24/7 operations. That's going to pose a problem because birds are extremely vulnerable to phototaxis. They're attracted to lights. And if you combine white light's especially with obscure environmental conditions fog Haze big rain storms. What will happen is the birds will circulate? And they'll go round and around and around and around and they'll collide with things and either survive or not survive many of them don't. and so during construction I'm less concerned about lighting during operations because that's a what there are well known mitigation measures for that using other colored lights shielding. All sorts of kind of things that do that but during construction you may not have the option of doing so that's a concern. a concern outside the Gulf of Mexico during construction Is Believe It or Not underwater acoustic impacts? It's widely known that this is of course of concern to Wales. However a number of tax of diving birds have sensitivity hearing sensitivity on the same order as pinnipeds and and beaked cetaceans so If that's the case diving birds like loons and acids. Sea Ducks things like that could be vulnerable during a winter window when they're using. parts of the Atlantic That's a concern in the Northeast down to about the Outer Banks and maybe arguably the Carolinas but then when you get into the subtropical and tropical waters. That just goes away. There are so a few loons in the Gulf of Mexico that went there and they Would be probably close to some of these wind energy areas. But that's that's much minor during the construction stage compared to the the lighting impacts. Noise it noise disturbance and so forth. Maybe I it isn't something that I would. Raise up there to the level of the light problem. Could be a thing. It's let's just say it's there, but it the things that keep us up at night literally are bright lights. That's that's the thing. 
That's a tagline. 
Yes. Yes, you're pretty is it no attribution necessary. now operations the the operation side you can bend impacts to birds in either kind of in the displacement category or Collision. And they're both they both occur. They're both real. I have a personal professional judgment that collisions. In the long run are more. problematic than displacement because I think it's a heavy lift in the science department to go from In in the research and the quantification it's a very heavy lift to say. That extra time that it takes Birds to go around something is outside their buffering capacity. And we all know that seabirds have buffers. That it actually has a substantial energetic cost. to that energetic cost has Fitness consequences. That's three. the fitness consequences have demographic impacts For and five the demographic impacts have species level survival consequences. And I don't see that out there. but it is something that believe it or not most of the research attention. for Areas that are being developed for wind. Most of the research attention on birds is on that not on collisions. At least in North America, it's different in Europe. They're pretty far along on the collisions. So that's why I would say displacement. Yeah, we have to study it and the cheapest way to do that is digital aerial surveys. But it's the collisions that. Again, keep me up at night whether we have the lights on or not. So that's where I would say that management research attention monitoring attention should be focused is on that. I don't believe that the Collision risk is special high for sea birds. And that's because when they've been studied with a combination of usually it's two of these three, but sometimes it's all three radar. both vertical and horizontal acoustic detections and thermal videography what the data show is that the vast majority of birds avoid spinning turbine blades, even if it's at the last minute. They lose their lift and kind of tumble for a while. They recover and go on. It's Above 98% we know that it in a couple of different studies. I think one here in North America one in Europe. at least 98% of birds avoid The problems with spinning turbine blades so and it's probably much higher than that micro avoidance those last-minute changes. Those are the hardest to measure. So but still. In one case a wind energy area was proposed in a part of the Atlantic that had not one not two but six. highly globally imperiled seabirds that use that area. 
first 
It's kind of a big Junction for seabird migration and movements. It's very off the Outer Banks and we took a pretty Sharp. Strong standard said no best place is just stay away put put those wind energy areas elsewhere and these are birds that are what I would call Reckless Flyers they bound tens or hundreds of meters in the air. They rock it across the ocean and you know high-speed and in those winds when you want the turbans to be moving. They're not very maneuverable. They're more maneuverable than light winds. So That's it's it's collisions during the construction phase. Operational phase its lights. Those are the that's what I would call the top tier problems. and then you ask me to whether Okay, so This is as both are a special problem in the Gulf. In so so the gulf is going to stand out as different than any of the Atlantic areas because a couple of things one is the volume. of bird migration across it It's almost too big to conceive of it's literally. It may be low billions of birds. It's a lot of birds use it in the spring and fall so there. You can't find any place else in the Pacific or Atlantic it has that volume of migration. It's number one. Number two. We already have 4,000. plus or minus oil and gas rigs with those big flare stacks and bright lights. And so there's already a pretty good structural Hazard for birds in the golf. And then a lot of golf, so that's that would be the land Birds the songbirds and the waterfowl and Shorebirds and Raptors Hawks and things that fly across spring and fall the good news. Is that a lot of them migrate High. Unless they get in bad weather then they can go down on the deck. If but there could be a perfect storm where you force Birds down before they get to the coast and and they hit all this infrastructure. seabirds have kind of a different thing going on, which is a lot of them love to use offshore structures in the Gulf to roost on and so attraction is going to be an extra risk for gold seabirds and I would say that the problem in the Gulf is going to be greater for sea birds about attraction than it is. In other places first. They already have the habit of doing it there. Second we have species like cormorants Brown Pelicans Royal turns laughing goes they've already you know, what better way than just wait until the feeding the fiscals come up the surfaces sit on the infrastructure of an oil. Platform and wait for that to happen or a trawler to come passing by and then go out and follow it so. Attraction is something that was you would want to elevate that. In the Gulf over other regions and for birds and you would want to do so. Mostly for for sea birds landbirds do this too, but there it in a perfect world. They don't need the rest. And in the Gulf is another thing we have things like frigate birds that cannot sit on the water. The absolutely can't touch it in terms of, you know, floating like a duck so they they have to use an offshore structure if they're spending a lot of time out there in order to rest and and preen their feathers and get get the salt out and so forth. So there's just the potential for things in the golf that haven't occurred anywhere else in the world. There may be some analogies with the North Sea and birds Crossing that and of course there. They I believe the Dutch have implemented some curtailment of Turbine or wind farms when the conditions are especially hazardous and I'm not sure if the curtailment was for the purpose of birds or bats. Bats are another legitimate concern with collisions and and there's some differences the volume won't be as great. Of course, it's tree inhabiting bats that are at risk not. Not so much the cave inhabiting bats. I know a lot less about bats in the Gulf of Mexico than even I do in the Atlantic so I probably ought not tackle that. But we often combine the two in comment letters when projects get developed. They they're it's usually Birds then bats birds and bats and and there is some commonality there. It's not nearly. It's probably I'm going to just throw a number out there three or four orders of magnitude, maybe five. Maybe even six below the volume of birds. It's you know. Way way down. Um, I don't know. I hope I answered some of what you asked. 
Oh, absolutely. This is been great. I was just gonna bring up some of the topics that you mentioned to make sure that you feel like you hit them so that you can you know, make sure that you got all of your thoughts out for that question earlier, you'd mentioned ecosystem interactions. I think you mentioned the golf. 
Oh. 
Go ahead. 
Yes, and that's one I neglected. So I mean I've talked to sort of about the risks, but there are benefits. So structures in the water basically 
Of course. 
create artificial reefs, and they're very reliable places for birds to find food. Um, I just downloaded a picture from one of our seabird observers in the Gulf of Mexico because I want to count the number of birds on this one platform. It's it's huge. Yeah, you know, just just to kind of illustrate the importance of structure so that so yes. running into lights running in the structure in bad weather terminal blades obviously, but there are places to rest their places to preen and clean the plumage so they can go back for another day, but they're also really good. food aggregation sites Now that does tend to kind of reinforce the risks if they're 
Yeah. 
tracking more birds than otherwise would be there but it is a it is a benefit so And there's this other thing that's peculiar to not just golf Birds, but but it's because the golf is tropical. Okay. It's it's a warm. It's a very very warm water environment. We had temperatures of Mid 90s this summer in the golf and the spots anyway. um things that tropical subtropical birds do that temperate and Arctic birds don't do is do a lot of this in the air column. Up and down and up and down and what are we talking about? I'm not talking about a few tens of meters. I'm talking about in the case of sooty turns. Their flight Heights very quickly can span of Range of four to five hundred meters. And so the the problem or the challenge with modeling Collision risk with birds is something called flux. It's the the movement density of birds that you're trying to figure out and model because it gives the bird a repeated opportunity hit determined. So there has been some thought a little not enough about the horizontal dimension of flux. zero zero to this none and it was a topic that I flagged both at the cww conference in Croatia last month or now, that would be September and then at the water Birds conference last month in Florida. We need to start looking at these kinds of movements if we're going to put wind energy in tropical environments like the Gulf and again, that's highly peculiar to the Gulf of Mexico at least in the US context. It's not something that you would run into off, Massachusetts, New York. Yeah, I'll just I'll just park that there for now and let you you ask some more questions. 
Awesome. Yeah, I was gonna say we'll move on the questions and I'll make sure to give us time at the end to make sure I'll bring up any topic and and you can expand on it, but no that's been very very useful so far. I appreciate that. All right, so moving on to question three, so this is a chance for you to talk a little bit beyond your expertise. So what else do you think could change due to Offshore and win in the Gulf of Mexico does not have to be related to your expertise at all? 
It could change the benthic can either the substrate configuration or benthic communities in ways it would be totally. Irrelevant or unimportant to birds but but very important to other components and then of course there would be a trade-off to be looked at between the the pilings themselves and what that might contribute to. The structural diversity versus the harms or the damage that it might do to the sea floor. I I have a deep appreciation for the Marine Mammal community in the Gulf because I've it's in extraordinarily diverse and I've been lucky enough to see. Rice's whales and frasers dolphin and a lot of I've even seen orcas in the golf and so it's a underappreciated aspect of the Gulf of Mexico. So I think that acoustic pile driving and the On top of all of the other acoustic disturbances that occur in the Gulf of Mexico is something to be really mindful of I think that's a big issue. I'm personally curious about how schooling fish in the middle or upper water column might respond to this the structures from from offshore wind. again, I don't think we're going to be totally naive or We're not gonna be starting from scratch because there's already so much experience with the oil and gas platforms Oh it changes to current flow. And both in terms of vertical and horizontal mixing. how that might affect such things as well productivity to be sure but even how might that affect say a of the layering of of the why the stratification in ways that would either mitigate or exacerbate The Dead Zone I don't know but it it is a thing and it's generally thought to be local or maybe a little bit super local but it it's I've seen papers that suggest the impacts are quite measurable and then some that aren't but that's an important one because it is anything at the surface is of key importance to Birds because that's where they make their living in tropical environments. They don't make it off the bottom of the sea. At least anywhere where they're going to be putting one in wind energy. wind farms so current current flow and stratification would be something I would think would be really important to look at in the Gulf. um Tell us let's leave that there for now for something else occurs to me on. 
Perfect. Thank you. Yeah, I actually I love hearing what people have to say that isn't in their expertise because those are some of the big ones that we like to talk about. So I appreciate you racking your brain for it. Um, okay. So here's our last question and then I'll we can go back to any question that we need to so you've actually mentioned if you're already but what management actions surrounding offshore wind could help mitigate or you know could be could impact some change when it comes to off your wind development. 
was probably what you already know because you're with Noah. So the the sort of in costs approach that's been used now in several places most recently. I saw it used in Oregon, but certainly been used in the Gulf of Mexico. For abating impacts to birds mammals bats. avoidance Is the big one? Smart Siding takes care of so many other problems and I feel really fortunate the data that I helped direct and collect was used in the Gulf of Mexico to avoid most problems with birds. and so you can I think there's room in the research and management worlds to think more tactically about avoidance. So there's the way of you know backing out looking at the entire Gulf of Mexico and coming up with a map of least conflict zones or more optimal versus less optimal. That's cool. That's great. But then when you get down to where you select you can start looking at aliquot Scales, which is around 1200 by 1200 meters and which ones you take in or put take out. In terms of refining that a bit. and I think the overall approach of avoidance where you're basically looking at GIS intersection of multiple layers. What are the consequences of waiting layers as some more important or greater value than others are 24 Birds a seabird species enough or should we use? I did what do we use the the endangered ones or that Trump the thing for the there's a lot of and else don't have I don't think they have objective answers. I think you're probably they're just probably in need of more attention. Maybe the one thing that would be a more a bit more straightforward is looking at avoidance at really small scales at least in the ocean. And they're doing this like it. I've seen several lease areas where they carve out. Wind turbines say seven turbines. I saw a project today. They took out seven turbines because those were too close to a shipping light. And so it shrunk a little bit the size of that farm for that purpose, but you could also do that on Environmental. bases, you know for yeah, but yeah avoidance is that's the big one. That's that's just that just makes all of our jobs easier. 
I mean if there's one big answer then there's one big answer. Um, okay. So that is actually the end of our four questions. provided has been amazing personally. I've been very interested by it. So thank you so much. Um, do you want me to go through and mention some of the things you mentioned to see if it jogs anything? Um, yeah. 
Sure. 
Okay. So I just took a few and then also will of course jump in if you need anything clarified or yeah, I I took a few notes. So let's just see some of the things you mentioned bird watching regulation. entrance into North America kind of the Gulf of Mexico being that pivotal Point migratory Birds the connection and that area ecosystem interactions as kind of broad topics and then also lighting during construction and maybe less so during operation 
so 
attraction in general could be a good and bad due to Collision and also as a structure and then you're kind of off the edge topics where Benson configuration marine mammals schooling fish and flow. Also, you mentioning anything that affects the surface could then for or have an impact or could affect the birds in any way because that's where they're you know, surface level interaction is and then the big management topic is avoidance. And so making sure everyone's is kind of big buzzword there. Anything you want to elaborate on? Or throw out. 
sort of pulled on the thread from avoidance. Wind energy and actually this might be out outside the Mandate of Noah just because of where this occurs. It's a state jurisdictional waters. That's a whole lot more problematic for birds. That's that's like light years bigger in terms of of a problem When farms in the middle continental shelf off, Texas and Louisiana, it's a thing. But because we have so much oil and gas there. I think we can probably figure it out. But putting them two miles off port for Sean is bad. That's I because you what you have is you have the breeding birds the migratory Birds. The birds that are lost funneled right along next to the coast. So they're just doing this. It's like, you know. Trying to get a three-year-old to cross a six-lane highway. It's not a good idea. 
Oh. 
So that's that's a thing. Oh, there's some good news, too. So goes like this. Wind farms is from what I can tell the wind generating capacity in the Gulf of Mexico is stronger and better. in the Far West it's actually best off the kind of Texas Arc from You know Freeport down to Brownsville. Which means that most of the wind energy areas will get cited in what what boom calls the Central and Western planning areas. Well, the bad news is that. The area one of the most highly industrialized seas in the world. It's going to get more so so it nominally increases the hazards that are already there. You know, I'm thinking of birds but for anything really the good news is the West Florida shelf and the Eastern Gulf is terrible for wind and that's kind of what we call that for Birds. We call it the Gulf of Mexico Wilderness Area because it's really lightly trampled. Um, and the rarest bird in the Gulf is mostly confined to that area. some of the most consistent feeding areas um We use a term for we call it the tuna grounds. Which is area sort of North and North Northwest of the Tortugas going up to about the latitude of Tampa that area is just really rich and and feeding tuna and it's a bird hot spot so that area is going to be protected. So that's good news. real good news and then another loose thread I thought of is that most birds in the Gulf most feeding Pathways. Most trophic Connections in the Gulf can be reduced down to about five pathways. and so from 
Okay. 
the the point of protection the point of whether wind farms create more habitat for fish more Collision risk for the turbines everything. understanding where and when these trophic Pathways occur will be key to evaluating the overall risk because it's not even it isn't spread out. And I'll tell you what this traffic Pathways. I think I can remember. So one of the really interesting ones is through Golf and Jovi. And it is a really key species for black turns which stage and migrate across the gulf in huge numbers. Probably most of the continents black turns. Go to the Mississippi Delta in late summer. Stay there until fall then come back in the spring and they feed on golf. anchovy So that's one. Really near shore. Usually where River outflow hits saltier water. Number two. Minhagen probably don't need anything more than that minute. Okay men hate men eight minute. But a lot of birds are almost totally rely on it brown pelican Northern gannets in Winter than anything else they can get it because it's such a energy rich dense fish. That's two a third one that we think is really important is the tuna mediated pathway, which is really too flying fish. But it may be some other fish but it's the tuna that make it available to the birds. And so you have this phenomenally tight. connection between schooling tuna and their prey And sooty turn which is the Catalyst. They're the ones way up there looking for tuna schools swoop down and all the slow Birds follow them. They do all the hard work and then the naughties and the brown boobies and the Yeagers and things like that. They they just sort of take advantage. That's a third pathway. That's really really important. sargassum I know there's a bad thing to have too much of it, but we have two species in the golf Bridal. Turn and Audubon Shear Waters that Are notorious trap line feeders around sargassum, they go from patch to patch to patch to patch to patch. And look for that pray in those in the macroality. That's the fourth and then Maybe one oh, yes. this is the most mysterious one and it is the connection between A couple of tube no seabirds sheer Waters petrol storm petrels and deep. diving mesopelagic fishes things like mictofits And so if you if you think about those Pathways those trophic Pathways, you pretty much have all. Of bird feeding covered there's one exception and that is a lot of birds fall of trawlers and feed off the discards and that would be another one to to watch or to look at it. It's kind of in the same vein as feeding around oil and gas or wind farm structures, you know there anything that makes Well, yeah, I see here's a free ride anything that creates benthic access to benthic prey is kind of a net positive. Because it's it's stuff that birds would normally not be able to get. So whether it's a trawler doing it or fish, you know swimming around the pilings, they're getting access to stuff that they normally couldn't. might be more of a hazard for Collision but it's it's generally a good thing and it if you think about the pathways I just do that's it. That's that's pretty much that's 95 or 99% of all birds Marine birds in the Gulf. That's how they make their living. 
Well, you simplified it greatly. 
So if well I wouldn't be so confident. If I hadn't been directing 61,000 kilometers of cold surveys. It's since the Deepwater Horizon in 2010, but it's such repeatable pattern and you know, so if you're looking at trophic flux, and if you guys are wanting to model things and do some of the iea stuff that I've seen done. That's those are really good Pathways that basically take care of the birds. 
I was going to say we spent so much time talking about indicator selection and waffling back and forth and news. Like here's your indicators here. 
I know he's like I know it. 
You want them? Here's your private reaction. Like that's that's great. 
We are doing that IA stuff. 
Yeah, Brittany. 
cool 
Did you have any more notes? 
No, I am I am all done. Well, you can take it away if you'd like. That was so interesting. 
Yeah, and and there's one one thing. 
Thank you. 
I wanted to see if you had more on otherwise, I'm good. You mentioned really early on that you feel as though there will be some sort of connection between offshore wind construction operation and then the sort of like recreational or tourism side of related to bird watching and that you stepped a little bit away. You kind of mentioned you think there's a connection there but the actual pathways through that connection are kind of unknown. Is that where you want to stay on it? 
right 
Okay. 
Well, yes, and no. I I think it's Maybe I'll draw an analogy first and then I'll just describe it. You probably have run into the problems. The public perception problems. The public relations problems of offshore wind is killing big whales. And so I think there is a risk that offshore renewable wind. Will have this same issue come up. Somewhere within the stakeholder community of bird watchers bird enthusiasts or people who temporarily borrow birds for their vested interests. We have seen that in a few places in the Northeast where it's actually fishermen who become the most outspoken proponents for Birds because of all the birds are going to die from turbans. So I that's gonna be a thing. I think maybe maybe that's more implementation. 
Sure. 
Audubon has a really strong program in the Delta and in the Gulf of Mexico. They're on top of it. Autobahn is also quite Pro wind maybe even sometimes to their own. Well, they get heat for it. Let's just say that they get heat for it and it's so I think there there's 
Yeah. 
the perception thing will definitely need to be addressed. I don't know if it needs to be addressed inside the parameters of this project, but it's gonna be 
right 
there. It's it's really gonna be there. 
Well, I'll tell but it is something that we've it's come up before and something that we're working on. I think within the iea philosophy. It's something that we think Falls within the bounds of the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem. 
um 
It's part of human dimensions. And so it's actually quite nice to hear you say that because it's something we spent quite a bit of time discussing about where it fits in the model and and how exactly we should be describing it. And then if it's something that's worth being measured in some sort of data platform or reporting system. 
It's it's hard for me to make a case that seabird watching is a thing. In the Gulf it is in the Atlantic and frankly. The outer banks have become globally famous as a place to go see incredible seabirds. and so even though the site almost makes that issue relevant hundreds of miles to the North and South if you will even even if there are no other places that that regularly do it, the gulf is different in that the continental shelf there so wide that it's just not practical. to take recreational birding trips, very far to CC Birds is just such a long slog out to deep water. So there won't be the constituency for those birds. I think that the constituency is going to be those people who are concerned about bird migrations across the Gulf. and in who are going to want to know that things are being done to sort of minimize the risks to migratory Birds. I'm not I might need to give this more thought and think. um it is it's a really good question and it might be better answered by someone who is let's just say in touch with the waterfowl hunting world and you know what with the that 
Yeah. 
that could be a key Ally or an impediment in the Gulf if there's a lot of waterfowl hunting in and I think there is in in Louisiana. Funny I'm a Bird Hunter but it's Upland game birds. It's pheasant. I don't I don't do ducks. I don't can't give you good reason maybe because I don't taste as good as it's um that that might be that's that's far enough outside my immediate area Focus that If you need a mind or you need some input. I could give you two recommendations Randy Wilson. Who's the migratory bird head it and Jackson, Mississippi. And then Jeff Gleason who's with the migratory bird branch in Chiefland Florida. They could they could if they didn't know the answer they could probably put your steering right direction. 
Awesome, that's fantastic. And that's actually one of the other benefits of this kind of like semi-structured snowball methodology is getting names like that and identifying areas where maybe we should pick up someone else's perspective to fill in some gaps here, but unless you have something else. I'll turn the recording off and I can 
Right was just one more question Brittany and and Willem do either have either of you worked on similar projects in the Pacific. 
so related to wind or on iea Project. 
either 
Yes, I my academic background is actually in the California Current and I was 
Okay. 
adjacent to the iea community when I was in graduate school. I had I had a couple of folks from the California Current iea on my committee. And then there's also a parallel IE win projects happening in the California Current right now all the different IA programs are free to use their own methodologies. And so they're they're doing something slightly differently over there, but there's sort of a parallel effort going on right now that focuses on the whole California current system. 
The reason I asked is if you start putting together conceptual models of where all the connections are in the gulf and if that's part of this this endeavor. there's a thing that seems to be well established in the Pacific that we don't tend to see as much in the Atlantic and really I almost not at all in the gulf and that is a tight association between submarine mammals and seabirds over say tuna. Um that you know, there's a long Rich history of study of that, you know, Robert Pittman Lisa balance and others in the Pacific. That's that's a It's a big thing. 
Yeah. 
We tend not to and we see we work alongside Marine Mammal observers almost all the time. And so it's literally something that we can test every day. And sometimes there's an association but almost seems like it's accidental. Or we'll see maybe one Dolphins species in the general vicinity of a tuna school, but they don't seem to be actively feeding. It's so conceptually you it doesn't look to me like one could easily combine. The apex predators is all doing the same thing. that's all I'm 
right 
That would have been convenient. 
now notable though. It is that's important. And especially I mean we compare notes with the other iea groups as well. And so that's something I'm sure they'd be interested in hearing in the California Current, but I'm sure here 
