question. So regarding visual resource resources in the Gulf of Mexico. How do you think that could be affected by offshore wind in this area? 
Um Probably just the scale of the turbines himself and then the expanse of the wind farms depending on how big they are. They can be visible for a really long distance. And I know that there's you know oil and gas platforms and things in the Gulf that are visible from a lot of you know locations. I'm sure and these are just much bigger and they're you know. And there's usually a lot of them together. So that's that's the challenges. It's usually a pretty big expanse of the Horizon, you know from a visual standpoint. So, I mean that that's where the concern is where there's people or sensitive viewing areas. It can be a pretty substantial change, you know from an open ocean view. 
Yeah, I'd say so, okay. So the biggest things often throughout these questions. I'll probably just kind of reiterate what you said to make sure that we're getting all the concepts that you said. And yeah, and so I'll say those back and then if it Spurs 
Um, and then the other part that's kind of companion to that is the night lighting. 
thoughts on them, go ahead and just 
because they're so tall. And if you're used to looking out over just what would be a completely 
keep going with it. 
dark ocean. 
So it seems like the big things that 
And it all of a sudden there's a row of red drinking blinking lights on 
you were talking about were the 
the horizon. It's pretty drastic change. 
both of the actual wind farms 
Okay. Sure. Yeah. 
themselves as well as the area in which they take up in the aggregation of the wind farms. Um, 
right 
And then also the lighting aspect of that so two type of visual representations of spatial scale and Lighting. awesome 
Brittany I have I have one sort of 
Go for it. Well. 
more foundational question that I'm gonna I'm gonna override here up for. So when you talk about visual resources and viewscapes and Aesthetics. Can you speak a little bit more specifically about the qualities of abusecaper and aesthetic that you're sort of looking at to value? in any way shape or form whether that be instrumental or inherently like what are What are the quote for someone who's uninformed in this type of work? What are the things that you're looking for? When you're evaluating say a viewscape or the inherent value of an aesthetic? 
um That's pretty that's kind of multi-layered. But we're really looking at what would be considered the scenic quality and that might be part of you know, kind of any. disturbances or any kind of Changes that have happened to the Natural landscape not all views are natural. So in some cases it might be just the changes that have occurred in a natural landscape and are they aesthetically? You know pleasing are they fit into the landscape or they really highly contrast highly visible and more of a distraction. So the scenic quality aspect is part of it. A lot of Landscapes are that we deal with in the Park Service are already. Yeah impacted if you will in some way that doesn't mean they have low Scenic quality so you can have you know, an agricultural landscape looking out from a park. it's a very nice pastoral nice kind rural landscape. So it's not all about natural landscapes and stuff. So we're looking how intact whatever that landscape happens to be. It's level of Integrity how intact it is and then things like are there attractive features forms, you know Focus points, you know, those kinds of things in the landscape what kinds of are there bold colors or their You know. colors that stand out or don't if they work well together as they're kind of a hormone harmonious, you know set of colors and especially in developed Landscapes are things kind of are is there a little bit of spatial organization or is it kind of chaotic? So those those are the kind of things that we kind of look at from a Scenic quality standpoint to assess. What we've got from an inventory standpoint as a Baseline and then how will that change and do we expect that change to be? You know. Positive bad really bad that that's kind of the the general approach. 
Awesome. That's really interesting. Yeah, so at the end of this I'll also have a chance to go back and kind of have a second pass these questions. You want to add me thing, but for now, we're gonna go ahead and move forward and with each question again. 
Okay. 
again. I'll just bring up the topics. You mentioned to make sure that we're for each topic. kind of discussing the same questions So for question two how specifically do you think offshore wind energy operation and construction those two different stages might affect all those topics you just mentioned. 
well a construction is you know in that phase there's just a lot of activity, you know, a lot of you know boat traffic and those kinds of things depending on the distance again, you know, if we're looking at something that's probably on the order we're getting out to 10 12 miles away a lot of the construction equipment the boats the lifts and all that kind of stuff. A lot of that will be below the Horizon. So it may not be too much, you know, tremendous visual impact. I think a lot of them run 24 hours a day once they're started. So the lighting on something like that could be an issue as well. As they light, you know construction construction areas and stuff for kinds of things. So I think from the construction phase probably just the increased traffic, you know in and out if somebody's looking out over the ocean. Depending on how close they are to you know, the bay or the harbor wherever the the construction staging is, then yeah, there could be a lot of increased traffic or something like that. Once you're in operations then we're looking at Just kind of what I mentioned before, you know, the the large turbines motion because that's that's really hard to you know, kind of imagine. You know, when you look at a visual simulation that somebody provides here's what our Wind Farm is going to look like. It's a static photograph. It doesn't relay the idea that all those turbines are moving or theoretically they should be Um, and then the lighting yeah, so those are the big things once you're in operations you you don't really have, you know, some of the construction aspects and all the navigation lighting is low enough on the on the turbines that you know at 50 or 75 feet above the surface. So it's usually not an issue. Once you're several miles out again. It's going to be below the Horizon so it's not really visible. 
So you mentioned earlier on on just Scenic quality. So you just recently mentioned traffic and all that. And so I understand that's kind of a busyness level. So maybe once they're already there in the operation. How do you think that will change the scenic quality of the area? 
Ah, well again, depending on what the actual view is like and many of them are probably pristine ocean. It depends since some of them might have pretty good visibility of some of the Offshore platforms. Some of those can get pretty large and they're pretty common in the Gulf. So maybe from some viewpoints those are visible. And then maybe turbines aren't a massive change on a landscape and stuff because that that view is already somewhat Disturbed with some intrusions. It's not a pristine Ocean View in other cases where there is more of a pristine Ocean View the platforms are far enough away that they're not really visible or they're just aren't any then you've got a bigger impact With the Wind Farm going up and you've got you know any number of turbines that are you know, really tall again motion that that's a pretty substantial change in the city quality. And for the most part most people consider that probably a negative change in that Scenic quality because it's it's a pretty big intrusion on a pristine of Ocean View 
So kind of twofold, you know a change versus an unimpacted area versus a change versus an area that's already been impacted. 
Right, right. 
some all right, just making sure and so talked again about you brought up oils several times. And so you earlier compared turbines to oil with them being much larger and more aggregated in a certain area. Can you talk about the visual maybe impacts or from that? 
Yeah, I think I think just the span of a wind farm it just depending on the exact size and how far it is away. It just has a Covers a big expanse of the Horizon as you look out, whereas an oil platform maybe there's clusters of my heaven, you know actually seen a lot of those offshore and I know what they look like, but I haven't been to the gulf to observe them at least recently. So they're smaller and they're usually singles and then the Turbines cover a large expanse of the Horizon, you know, maybe 10 15 20, you know, maybe even wider. Of that Horizon. And so it's that connection of this large project that really becomes the issue an individual turbine itself might not be that drastically visible but everything all together just in heightens the visibility of it and you've got the motion that attracts 
absolutely that makes a lot of 
your attention. 
and I think the last thing I'm gonna ask one more time for you to expand 
So just the scale of the wind farms 
on is kind of this idea of Motion versus static picture. I find that really interesting. 
in general just becomes a bigger 
Do we have any information about how 
distraction on the landscape. 
motion affects landscapes? 
Uh, not not specifically. I mean most lit most of it is related to you know, the Advent of wind farms in the last, you know, especially 15 10 15 years where they've gotten bigger and the you know, the blades get bigger the turbines get taller and they just become more visible on the landscape and and the motion just attracts your attention and most any impact assessment document that is provided for evaluating the impacts of a project. It always includes visual simulations. But they as I mentioned before they're static and they don't they can't communicate that visual attraction of that motion and the motion anymore. I mean we're looking at You're looking at turbine blades that are 300 feet long. And so it's it's a big thing on the landscape that's moving. And so it's it's not something that is is kind of a small little blip if you will that's that has some motion to it. It's not it. they're very distracting once they're out that far and there are ways to do that. There are ways to do video kind of video simulations or things like that that can give you some sense of what the project will look like when the turbines are in motion, but like any any simulation whether it's a video simulation or a static photograph is only as good as how it's developed and even then the best the very best simulations are Simulation of what a photograph of the project is going to look like they are not a simulation of what the project will look like to a person observing it you can't substitute. You can't recreate visual Acuity, you know in a in a visual simulation. 
Awesome. That's very interesting. Um, all right, so go ahead and zip along to question three. so this is kind of an open-ended question on beyond your expertise with visual. What else just do you think could be impacted affected change by offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico? 
Well just based on any of the projects that I've been involved in certainly Maritime traffic any kind of navigation, you know along the ocean surface, whether it's you know, pleasure voting and fishing or commercial. You know, certainly the navigation is a big deal. I know that a lot of the wind farms at least off the Atlantic coast. The traffic Lanes, you know any DOD areas commercial navigation. They're pretty well established and they're pretty well known so it's easy to avoid but a lot of the, you know, General kind of you know, Recreation is the voters who go out they can be a pretty substantial change in the ocean for them. Things are a mile apart. Or more so it's not. It's not a barrier. You're not gonna run into it, but it certainly would be I think a different feeling if you take your little fishing boat out in among wind farm and you know, you're sitting in the middle of all these towers. So I think that could be a pretty substantial change from just from a recreation user standpoint, you know off the coast where wherever because I'm sure people just in general have boats and take them out. So I think that could be that could be a little bit of a change I think from the recreation standpoint. 
Absolutely. Thank you. I always like that question because you get to just hear what other people here. So actually down to our last question and then we'll do a loopback just to make sure you got everything off your off your chest, but question four. Um, so from your perspective what management actions um, surrounding offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico could affect the relationships and the topics you mentioned today. 
So for visual resources, just move them back. I mean the further away they are the less you see them and stuff the I mean the challenges that they're getting taller and taller and taller all the time. I think they're that you know at a height of 5 600 feet to the nacelle now, so I mean you're talking about something that probably needs to be on the order of um, probably 15 to 20 miles off the coast before it's not visible. Once you do get that far you take care of the lighting issue if you get the lighting if you get them to sell below the horizon. You don't have the lighting problem with the the now Aviation the red lights. And once you're at that far the the blade motion becomes more difficult to see because at those distances the blades are small and so it's hard it's harder to discern, you know, kind of the blade tip moving on the horizon and then just the ocean itself the you know, atmospheric conditions on the ocean surface. Once you're out probably 10 15 or 20 miles away. It's the you know, you've got the haze near the surface. So I think you're in a situation where yeah, you just move them out to where they're not as visible. And that's that's the biggest key thing is is distance for visual resources. 
Awesome. So yeah, I feel affiliate your management solution kind of covered a lot of the topics, um when it comes to lighting and also movement, um, how would that distance maybe change the scale? You just get you said scale of the turbine, but what about scale of the spatial spread? How about that? 
well I mean certainly going to help that too. Just because once you get all if you can get the closest turbines below the Horizon anything behind them won't be visible either and then, you know, even the span if you can't really see the blades turning or it's not a big distraction in the landscape. If you can't see him, you can't see. Oh, you can't see one you can't see them all and and if you get the distance far enough, then then the spam issue is really not a problem either because none of them will be visible. 
All right. That's affiliate's a nice tidy solution. So I'm glad we have that down, right? 
Not moving back. 
So I'm gonna give will a chance to see if you want to have anything clarified and then we'll go through and just give a quick summary and see if it's for any other thoughts on your end. 
Okay. All right. 
Now I I'm feeling comfortable on my side with the model. I think you've been doing a really good job of tying everything that you you've been saying back to the specific processes and pressures that affect those things. So I'm feeling comfortable in this ends, Brittany. 
awesome All right, so I'm gonna go through again. I just took a couple quick notes on just kind of some of the topics you mentioned. So I'm gonna run through them real 
Sure. 
fast. And if anything you want to add related to that not related to that anything you want to mention. Just let us know. 
Okay. 
So again something you mentioned we're scale of both the turbine and the spatial spread of the collection of turbines. You've mentioned their comparison to oil both in having the turbine bigger than an oil platform, but also more aggregate so they take up a bigger area. You mentioned sensitive viewing areas in general to some areas, maybe more sensitive. You mentioned lighting that you no longer have a dark ocean if they're still visible. And then you were mentioning when you were clarifying to will kind of value of Seascape and you're talking about Scenic quality. Does it fit into the landscape is it just distraction and you've related to shaction to the movement of turbines kind of adding to distraction and then you also mentioned something can be in impacted but still Scenic and that you can have a big change of a natural pristine habitat versus an area that's already been impacted and adding to that and so you also 
right 
mentioned attractive features colors all kind of contributing to those Scenic qualities and then during construction phase you mentioned that traffic activity again movement adding to distraction and that the Horizon is a big impact on you which then the Horizon impact kind of comes into Clay when we talk about distance offshore, so some of the big topics 
right 
that I feel like you mentioned. Is there anything you want to add to that or you wanted to kind of elaborate? 
Man, not really. I I think that pretty much covers it. Yeah, I Will see I mean actually nobody really knows at this point. Nobody knows what people's reaction to them will be because there isn't one. There isn't one built anywhere off of any US Coast. I mean except for a few off of you know, Block Island. So I you know, a lot of it is speculation as far as what people are really gonna think about them and do they really impact the view. We're guessing we can make a pretty good assumption that if it's a pristine open view that now we have a hundred turbines out there that people are going to care. But it's still an assumption. So. We won't know anything until one's 
So kind of a novel. 
built. 
Yeah, so I guess a novel Construction. 
Yep. 
Yeah, that's that's super interesting. I've really enjoyed this because this is so outside of my review that it's been a New Perspective which is the whole point of these interviews. 
Good. 
Yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna turn the 
So it really appreciate it. 
