There's also I don't know what they're I mean like there's so much movement that's happening right now. Like I know that we're already. Seeing changes and coral like all over the Caribbean. And with white flakes Stony Coral, I'm curious what the chemical effects would be. I don't know if there are so I feel like a lot of research needs to be done. Like what is the substrate? What are they using are they actually going to be drilling? Are they gonna be welding? What kind of chemical? Balance or acidity levels are going to change in the water levels. Like is it going to cause more heat? Sorry dumb questions, but feel like these are more scientific questions, but general questions that I feel like nobody seems to care about sometimes. our research also very deep so these turbines I'm guessing aren't just going. To be shallow. They're going to be relatively deep. So we also have a lot of movement in the Gulf of Mexico. So I'm curious about that when we have ships moving back and forth, especially since we again now have become one of the largest ship channels like having this new Port going back. I'm just thinking it's gonna be a massive destruction. Just Dance I don't know if anyone's thought about that my questions are also related to migration patterns specifically towards Birds we have like huge migrations of birds from the Gulf of the going through the Gulf of Mexico have people done research on this. I don't think enough research been has been down towards it and it's come up specifically with my work and what we do because there's an artist that are working with at the Museum of Science Art and Science. We're doing a show and she's doing an entire exhibition. Part of it. It's all related to migrational patterns of transplanting birds from Mexico to Like our north northern America, so I'm just very curious about what the hell's going to happen to those birds. We do this and we know that wind turbines definitely affect birds. Like that's actually one of the things that does happen. The other question was like the monarch butterflies from Mexico. I don't think people are thinking that we do but we have like a huge migration all I don't know whether they actually go through the gulf, but that's what we've been told that they do my grade through there. And we do know that we need monarch butterflies. I have no idea. So I feel like We need to start investigating this so I don't know how you work with Marine scientists, or you work with like a coffee ecological scientists on this other than you know, like we I think a lot of other people and stakeholders need to be brought into this. And people are not thinking this is not only affecting Galveston. I feel like every time something that happens in the Gulf people only go and ask golf Galveston. No one goes and talks to other areas around the cup like Houston San Antonio Austin all of us get affected and it's very frustrating because I don't live in Galveston. I live in Houston and I I see the after effects of like air pollution and you know things happening indirectly in our Bayou and our ecological systems. Because our Port it, I don't know how to explain. I just keep thinking like one oceans in the concept of water being connected. I'm also really very concerned about oxygen because like my new research and my work is all related to tide pools and mesophotic deep zones, and I'm focused on like Coraline algae and abundance of photo plankton and sea life. So I'm curious how this is going to affect it, especially because we're seeing Coral decline as it is, but like how's it going to affect Coraline algae photo plankton? especially because like I do think when we don't have an abundance of a good healthy ecosystem in the Marine World, you're killing off 60% of our planet's oxygen. Until no one seems to think about that and that's all right. That's not my work is right now and it's like I'm really focused on it and I feel like people don't realize that we have a ton of like gaggonians and water whips. on the deeper zones so again when they plant these turbines like they're forgetting about those and what about the manta rays? I Sanctuary recently in the last couple years where it was kind of declared that it's potentially a breeding ground from manta rays. I'm curious about how this is going to affect them. We've already seen really strange things happening with our mentories. Okay, they've been coming closer to the coast and like going by What do you call it? The? The peers out by Galveston which is very strange should not be. So I'm curious like are they gonna start circling these like wind turbines? And is that a healthy thing? How does that affect manta rays? And their habitat because the sanctuary is their habitat. I'm concerned about larger species of like fish. We already have a decline in Wahoo. Like we're about to tell our Fisheries to like stop fishing more than like a certain number. It's like in our next Council. I think it's like one and every catch or something weird like that. I have no idea. You really? But I mean, I don't know how this is going to affect other species. so I'm just really curious there's like pluses and minuses, but I feel like the mile the minuses are a little higher in my I mean, that's how I look at things like I'm like, well what Are the plan and I see that they're more minuses. I'm like, oh that's a problem. And here's the thing. We have a s*** ton of land in Texas. What do we doing? And also, Sorry, I'm being really Frank. There's a lot of land. I understand that people are concerned about things like oil spillage. On land. Is that something that happens like on the ocean with wind turbines? I don't know. I shouldn't. But yeah, I'm just I'm like why we why are we doing this? Like I get it? It might be good. But I don't know is I mean part of it makes sense part of it doesn't. I I just don't know. I feel like we don't know enough and then I mean We've already taken over so much of our natural beautiful areas. Like how is this going to be a sanctuary anymore? 
So I'm hearing a few things. I want to make sure that I am 
I'm so sorry. 
interpreting them correctly. And actually it's will taking notes. 
I feel like I found so angry. 
No, you're good. You nailed my first question without me even saying it but the way you phrased a few of the impacts that you might be seeing. I think there's a few things going on. So I'm gonna Repeat it back and you can like thumbs up if I interpreted it correctly. The first big one is a lot of scientific unknowns a lot of questions. We haven't studied yet. Just a lot of big question marks that 
Yeah. 
we should answer before moving forward. That's kind of a process question. 
And I mean I'm being honest. I'm angry at like our like I don't want to say this to our Sanctuary people who work at our Century, but I'm freaking angry at them because they're not doing the work that they should be doing. This is like their research. What color are they doing? I get so mad with them sometimes and I don't like this. I don't want published or said anywhere but like okay our social 
No. 
media is not for dumb s*** like about Christmas tree worms with googly eyes. It should be about like educational Outreach. Like I'm so sorry like, you know good way a positivity but also like Don't litter in our Bayou our Bayou. Is that the bay the bay affects like the flower gardens. It is a marine century. 
Yeah to be fair giant trash wheel in 
Yeah. 
Baltimore with googly eyes has done a lot of rain debris heavy lifting. So the googly eyes work. That is a totally said 
there there 
the other 
just not I'm sorry. 
yeah. 
Just what? 
No, you're right. I was just trying to make sure that so we had been taking notes sort of by topic but you hit on a lot and I just that that's great. Will I feel for you? But then there's some stuff sort of nestled within there one is the process of like we haven't studied things one. You mentioned stakeholders not enough people being involved in the chance to say anything actually if you could 
Yeah. Yeah. 
delve into that a little bit more and maybe put some words in Wheels head that we can include in our model like how how would they like to be involved or 
oh like 
who's missing? 
I don't know. I feel like if people had known about the the large the largest port of like in the United States coming to Galveston, Texas. I don't think people would have wanted that happening here necessarily. I mean like 
But they didn't know. 
No, no one knew and it was really upsetting like I there were people on our Council who wanted it not to happen. We there were people who wanted a letter to go out and no one did anything about it. And it was really it was hard to watch. I actually couldn't go to one of my last Council meetings and like, you know, like I feel like I've been a voice for the sanctuary. I created more stakeholdership and like bought more attention to it through my work. I was extremely disappointed, um, because like whatever for stupid reasons but whatever because I don't think I said anything wrong I said like the sanctuary is located 100 miles off the coast of Texas because I'm trying to create again a stakeholder ship in it by reminding people. This is located off the coast of Texas. It's our morning Sanctuary people 
right 
People don't know it's If you don't know, it's out there off the coast of Texas. And yes, okay New Orleans or I mean, Louisiana. But it's there. It's there like I don't think I said anything wrong in the verbage and it was really weird. I got corrected on a post that I did about a year ago and like a it was very strange. Anyway, it's just one person who's angry at the council. whatever, so an angry person who I don't really care for I just feel like I'm I'm just disappointed because I feel like more should be done and I'm not understanding and there's been turnover and I'm glad to see some people in the right place, but I'm hoping more people will be there to rise and I I'm sure if you told the divers that you wouldn't be we want to do all of this. I don't think they want that. For example, like I mean, I'd love for this petition or if there's a petition to be sent out to all the dive clubs and see I bet you they'd all sign. Oh no on there for you probably because they want to dive the sanctuary and not see big giant obstructions for no reason in their way. I mean, you know, the muddy garage for example was discovered in the Marine Century. There are some fish there that I've never seen you have some of the largest Stony corals I've ever seen in the Marine Sanctuary the flower garden bangs National Marine Sanctuary. I have dived all over the world. I've not seen such Coral in the Maldives even so it's it would be disappointing to just destroy some of it to put out wind turbines for crying out loud that you could put out anywhere and I hate to say this but we've almost saturated our power grid so Again, being married to like an energy infrastructure lawyer. I don't know why you need more this is like Is this necessary like do they really need this? I don't know so. Yeah, I don't know. I don't know. I'm just curious. 
so question on that on sort of the geography of if we could. Map the corals and things that we cared about and put them in certain places versus others. I'm thinking of the long list of impacts you just mentioned would that make a difference potentially in both your support for it? And the potential impact that they have 
Like what? Yeah, I mean like if there's a way to do strategically but I don't know how you would stop birds from flying into it. like 
Yeah, I mean I've tried to map the 
that 
birds too. So I'm incorporating that like where the flyways are. 
so I mean there are I'm just wondering if there's a way to do it like in a positive manner like even does it have to could it be like intercoastal or where it's not like what way out in the Deep? So it's not affecting mantas for example or deeper deep deep zones. I'm just wondering and that way like but it's still affects Birds. I'm just thinking. 
to plus minus like you said for everything, but I'm just trying to get at your your calculation of 
Well, if you had it, I'm just thinking if you planned it in a specific grid format and you you monetize a certain amount of space. Sorry because I'm in the daughter of an engineer as well. And this is why public art. I'm just thinking like if you monetized in a specific manner, I can't imagine Birds wanting to fly into something like that. Like, you know, like you create a structure where it looks like a large thing. 
Mm-hmm. 
I think I I feel like you know this 
Like scare them off. 
when I say you don't have stakeholders talking in this this needs to be designed with the help of certain. Engineers who are philanthropic who are actually people who care about the environment people like someone like Dr. Joe Colosso who's a winforce engineer here in Houston, Texas and an architect, like for example, like someone to think about I feel like if someone asked him, hey, you know, we'd love your help to consider how we could design this in a way where the birds won't fly into it. And this is the allotted location. We need so many turbines. How would we monetize this location to the best of our ability? Once you find the bird path patterns, I mean there's ways to do it. Like I feel like okay, like if you have to find a way to do it, there's a way to do it. 
right 
that way no shifts are bumping into the damn thing or it's not bothering anyone. Thank you find the one location or it's either in area on like swampland. But then are you getting enough wind? Thus the other reason why they want it way the freaking hell out there. Probably I get it. 
Yeah, it is some of the best wind fields which is why it's there. But also it's Federal water. So Texas has I'm gonna ask you to stay out of this one Texas has state waters that they can choose to do what they want wind turbines or sanctuaries or whatever, but that's there's a jurisdictional thing there so our zone is nine miles out. into the Gulf and Beyond 
Interesting, you know. 
Yeah, just to try to keep your list of impacts to that as well. 
The other thing I'm curious about is like so this this where does this energy go? Is it linked to our crazy grid system because you know, we found stupid grit system because like 
TBD but yeah, good question. 
I'm just curious. Sorry. I have solar energy my whole house. It runs on solar power. So just it's it's but I also have a 
Oh. 
ton of batteries because I don't trust her great system. 
Yeah, that is fair from what I understand. 
That because I I've lived in Chicago but never been so cold before in my life. 
That is saying something. 
you know, but that frees was not fun like and we get some hot summers so 
Yeah. 
So so that's when I say we need to stakeholdership in it. This needs to be a larger conversation. I feel like and it needs to be a conversation that just doesn't involve like just people who are like I feel like you need to involve some more of the younger generation. No offense. I feel like every time there's all these old people on our Council no offense. Sorry. 
Well there goes they have time. 
I get it. They have time. I know it I'm doing it because it's partially my work. I you know, I it was disappointing. Like I also understand like there, you know the other day I even got told by somebody that I don't do enough for them. And I'm like I'm doing my best. I'm trying to speak up for you and I'm you know, you're a nonprofit this only so much I can do I sit on a couple boards, but I'm like, I don't have a surplus of free time. As I said, I'm not the biggest expert on this but like I just feel like there's too many unknowns and when you when you know, I just I'm 
Yeah. 
seeing something terrible happen. For example off the coast of Mumbai. They just build an intercoastal Highway for no reason and have destroyed the Moon by Coastline to give you an example. They did the first phase where they built this beautiful ceiling out in the middle of the ocean. It worked it was fine. Now they've completely gone and they've deck out our entire tide pools and done Reclamation plan. We have Coraline algae and everything. It could be one of some of the most abundant marine life and You know, I remember saying. Our fish are gonna die half of them by lives on marine life because it's a Fisherman's Village like the most like at least most of the poverty. I'm just giving this example because I anticipating more decline in species with more human structures like this going out in our ocean. So that's the only thing I foresee personally. because I've seen it sucks stupid and no one seems to want to listen, so That's the only I can only give examples and I feel like maybe we should look at what we're seeing. Why is it that California has said no to this and why are we okay with this happening in Texas? That's another question. so 
California hasn't said no for the 
now 
record the northern. They have several proposed areas. The northern stretch is going forward. They have a construction underway. 
Is there with this like outside the sanctuary borders? 
My understanding for Texas is it is currently outside of sanctuary borders. I haven't looked at the yeah. I haven't looked at the future of potential Maps, but the stuff that's going up for lease this round and that's round two is north of it. They're trying to stay out of sanctuaries de conflicted is the word 
but 
that they're using stay out of military's way stay at a sanctuary stay out of shrimp grounds. 
they're going north. They're going north, which is just outside. So it's still in migrational patterns, though. 
Yeah, the migration thing is is real and we've heard Birds bats and butterflies. So you nailed it in terms of what? 
Well, what's funny is and I've seen it literally like we've been out at Sea and like there's been little birds like get stuck on the boat and we take them back with us we go and let them go. It's very sad. I'm not even joking. It's actually very sad. So it happens like, you know, I'm just trying to think of like how you do it and like there's no way to do it on the sides probably. 
So I have a question for you on the how would you do it back to your comment about how do you actually affix it to the ground? And there's an artificial Reef associated with it? And what does construction look like much in line with what we were just talking about is you know, we don't know what's going on there how might it play out or how might the process go to make it better versus not do have thoughts on the construction process and how that might affect more or less the ecosystem based on how we do it. You can Channel your husband here if he knows more than any of us. 
Yeah, I was curious actually like about the mean do you just leave it there later on. Can you just leave it there? Because like if it becomes an artificial relief, it'd be nice to just leave it there. 
to be determined is my understanding that's a point of discussion, but the 
Okay. 
But the concept that yeah should be 
Yeah. 
in the model. 
I would say leave it if you put it there just leave it because like I mean and the good example is literally I can't remember why I'm again forgive me. I'm dyslexic Ms. 101 is like our platform in our Reef. It's kind of cool actually honestly, like even dive and just see the whole thing is covered in coral and I can't explain you how cool that is to see because I I painted and it's really 
That is cool. 
neat like You know, I was trying to say like oil and gas isn't bad. Like I feel like we can work together and we should work together honestly, so if there's a way to like find a solution. I just want to know what the hell they're gonna do with all that energy as well. Like it would be nice to know and that's what I'm saying like create a stakeholdership in it like I'm sure there's a way to like. I mean, there are some Geniuses and are around here in Texas and I just feel like we're not monetizing. The philanthropy the the smart people that we have and the engineers and come on like Houston like you be like why I'm why aren't we talking to some of the people this could be a project? That would be actually really cool if it was done right? Like I don't see why not like, you know, like business a bid for affiliate issues like that could be really cool. I don't think anyone thought about that maybe I mean it would be really interesting to do it, but maybe do it right if that makes sense. 
Totally makes sense. 
It's like I keep saying the sea-link in India. The first one in Mumbai was done correctly. The second one second phase was b*******. I don't know why they've done it. They didn't need to kill everything off. They still could have gone around the coast and it would have been fine. 
right 
I'm just trying to like hope that they don't do a third phase like in the same way. They need to go back to doing it just costs more took more time and understand but like sometimes you have to like value. What you have as opposed to killing off species and trying to do the right thing. I don't know for the environment and for yourself. like I 
Yeah. 
you know because we've been around for a long time and the planet will outlive us no matter what so 
Parts of it. 
I think 
Well 
I think nice to be good to it. what I'm thinking 
Speaking of other experts in Texas you reminded me of something. I wanted to follow up on the available land that you mentioned in, Texas. You brought up and my head went to 
Yeah. 
potentially for wind because there's a lot of land wind. Is that what you meant? 
Yes, I usually did. 
Okay. 
There's like a lot of open land for wind. I'm just curious like I'm even laughing like cuz like I know like for example the Galveston Bay Foundation, I don't know if you've even heard of them. They they bought us like they got like they got a ton of funding through the conservation fund. And they bought all this land specifically to protect it. I mean I could even see them being open to putting a few wind turbines. Just to try to like not have so much like being done. If you're I mean talk to them or have a conversation. I feel like that when I say stakeholder ships, I mean like bring people like that in is what I'm saying. I don't know if they've been brought into the conversation or not. I I like I'm just thinking of different. entities that actually would want to help that would want to find better Solutions and understand what the problem is and come up with answers to help, you know. 
Yeah. 
That's something I'm even thinking like people in the Arts also would want to help like it sounds crazy, but I can see the Museum of Fine Arts wanting to do something. it I know it sounds like not so whatever but like I feel like if someone was actually like if things were brought to attention. There's ways to do this like the Bayou City Partnerships like that their work that they do over here is all about like environmental understandings. So I mean I could see that like being something to think about as well. I'm sure there's people in Dallas too. It just I just feel like we need to think a little more outside the box. That's all. 
totally and so I think you've run through my first three questions the fourth you kind of just hit on but is how might management change the potential effects and I've hinted at it with specific of these but thinking of management not just the state or the federal government coming in and making rules but like the broader sense of policy so citizens groups activism. What not. What? things might they change in order to have a better outcome in how this in some of the issues that you've brought up. 
Well, so I don't know what the laws are like specifically. In terms of like how close went to our brines need to be next to each other or like, you know, how far apart and all of that nonsense. I'm sorry, as I said I'm not but you 
I don't know either to be honest. 
know. 
Not sure it's the thing. 
And like I know an engineering Precinct too, I'm Precinct 4, I'm sure like actually Ray would be interested. Like, you know lawyers do pro bono work. I can't see why not like It would be interesting. I'm just trying to think of like I just feel like some of the policies might be if I knew what some of them were. It would be nice to be educated about them firstly. 
Step one for sure in form of said 
step 
policy. 
Well, it might be nice to know what the policies are. I don't even know if that's public knowledge. How do you even find that information out? That is that crazy. 
Yeah. 
I hate to say it. But I feel like sometimes you're put in a room on person like like black purpose and you're asked questions and then this and it's like done strategically and then you're asked to vote and I'm like, okay and I'm 
right 
like, I don't know any of the stuff and I'm like God, I don't know how to vote and I don't I mean, I just don't like the idea of it because like you vote with your gut but like s*** if I knew the policies that might be helpful. It would be nice to educate people with the policies. Like, you know, I'm not against it, but I'd like to know the policies maybe is there a way to get that information like I don't know. 
Yeah, so it's running through poem right now the Bureau of ocean and energy management at least for offshore. Like I said different jurisdictions have different rules, which is confusing. 
Which is what you just said like to me twice, you've hinted it about the Texas Waters and where it's located and I'm like man. I don't know any of this. I want to educate myself about this, but I have to learn about nfsdm and esdm to buy your codes for a public 
right 
So 
Yeah, it's different. I'll try to while you're talking. I'll try to see if I can find their Gulf website that said there is not a ton up and this is new like Massachusetts just plugged in that was in the news last week. They are the first offshore wind on our grid and so they were they were 
and just 
the precedent if you will for how this is gonna go down. 
well, it would be interesting to know the policies actually because like that's how you make changes right to 
right 
policy. 
Mm-hmm. 
so sorry I'm asking 
now no, this is 
No, that's a great answer. 
And especially right like because we're talking to you not just because we want to hear what you think and and what you've heard but we're also trying to build something and do research and create a public facing data platform about offshore wind, right? And so these are things that we could be thinking about when we're building our platform. Right? Do we want to build a policy 101 
Yeah, like she like a cheat sheet on 
section like, you know 
right 
of stuff. So that's we right 
hey policies like for, Texas and 
right We we like we like hearing this stuff 
Yeah. 
is what I'm trying to say. 
Yeah, totally and I could picture. 
will is trying to get it in our model, but it definitely everything you've said has. A place even things you've apologized for so. It works. Yeah. I dropped a link to the bomb site. I don't know just bookmark it for later. 
You know, and I'm just so curious like what the hell is the ocap for then? I mean, what are they supposed to do that Biden action ocean action plan like what was the point? 
Delegate out to others to do it. I mean, it's setting a Target right to your point about do we need this is getting to your question of do we need the energy and who who is going to get the energy which is I've imagining how we'll put it in the model. 
Yeah, because like I'm telling you from my point of view. I don't need that energy like and our 
right 
greatest saturated. So what is happening with it? Why do they need it? 
Well, and what's interesting about it right is it's it's not even up. 
But but at this time sorry and 
It's not. No, please go ahead. 
remember. I know I do. I do remember asking this question because I asked this question to Chris and another person who works with energy infrastructure. And I did get the answer. So it's when the grid is oversaturated and it can't perform at full capacity. They would tap into wind energy. 
so that's one possible solution, but the the longer answer is that it's gonna be up to the developer or whoever wins the rights to develop and in theory, they could just keep it for themselves and use it for whatever they want or they could choose to plug in in that that case what you're talking about. But what's tricky about it is it's kind of out of the government's hands and it's not Noah's job or bones job or even Right like Biden or the executive 
right 
department jobs. It's all up to whoever wins the lease. 
Right, so like someone like BP or whatever. 
Right if they choose to yeah if they choose to to take it. 
yep, and we there are requirements possibly of them in their permitting process, but that's what's still kind of new. 
to just oh my 
right 
So that's those are the policy changes you can make. 
exactly Yeah, and that's why I ask you about the devils in the details, right? Like what? in this process could change to affect some of the effects that you were concerned about. 
I think more transparency probably about the policies that that information should be like very clean and dry and transparently available to every Sanctuary advisory council member firstly. Sorry putting it out there. It's available to every major stakeholder. In the area when I see major stakeholders, let's define who stakeholders are. 
Yeah. 
like I think that the word is just like used everywhere and no one knows what it means anymore because like 
Like even like and you know, it's sad, you know, I'm trying to remember what I'm they got rid of old maps for example for boats. 
right 
Okay. And everyone has to use this I can't remember. What is it called a sonar system. No, it's not. So on our what is it? It's called The nav something nap nav something and you have to have it on your boat and you can't go up without this on you the very expensive thing on your boat. 
the AIS system 
Yeah. 
Yes, that's okay. I'm I was thinking about like and forgive me. I it's because I have somebody who works with me my studio who's like 86 years old. 
No, sure. Yeah. 
Okay, and whose technologically like inept of times and I was really thinking about like some of my older friends and the older guy friends that I have. who own boats and I was like I'd love to pay money to see so-and-so use this thing and be 
right 
visually Savvy and I literally I said what about all these people who, you know can't afford it or all of a sudden have to switch to this. How are they going to afford it? And they're like, no, they'll just go to the map store and realize they can't buy Maps anymore. And I was like what that's the people are gonna find out. 
Yeah. 
You're not putting on your social media and not putting on your news. You're not putting it out there like 
right right 
So this is a little terrifying because like that's that's those are the stakeholders in a way. 
Yeah. 
So and I feel like they have no right to say anything or write to it. And it's in their Waters. 
right 
That's that's messed up. I'm sorry. 
now it's that's it's it's good I but 
it's just 
Like we said the the diversity of opinions and thoughts. This is what we're really looking for. And so everything you've said is is extremely valuable to us because you do you have a different perspective not just based on your role, but also like your Community member you've you talk to these people so 
so I I really think like how I feel like, okay, so your policy policies need to be available. but like yes, I know that website, but I feel like I feel like you know, we didn't know anything about this whole new Port thing happening hearing a lot of 
right 
information about like the turbine the wind turbines going up there for years, but no one knows about it and then You know, we I've been hearing about the Ikes that Ike's is that the right thing the word um, because we get a lot of flooding as well. So I'm just thinking about like the dykes. Sorry Dykes Dykes dikes. 
Oh, yes. 
I was like, what's the word for Amy? Sorry. And too much information my brain. But you just hear about it and you don't see it. So I don't know how what platform do you even find this information on? 
right 
It should be the Noah like flower Garden's nationality website you would think so. Can it be like could it be it would be nice like if it they're on the 
Yeah. 
sanctuary's website. Can you guys veto that and take that over please? 
Well, what's interesting right is like those are the ideas that we put into our model and eventually go into our final product right and like maybe Amy and I don't have the authority to do that. But maybe we can talk to those people and say hey we heard from 
this 
right 
stakeholders that this is something that interests to them and then right it's still not up to us, but 
I don't know. 
It's it's a way of moving things forward. 
if you're gonna get so much pushback from not sorry you 
No worries. 
they want pretty pictures. They want to not deal with the real problems and it's not the right. It's horrible to say that I joined the same tree advisory Council because it's someone named Emma Hickerson. I don't know if you know who she was. She's amazing. 
mmm 
Um, she left to move back to Australia and she kind of recruited me and then GPS always there and he's awesome and he retired last year. And it's and I'm still there because I have a couple other people that are really respect. Otherwise, I would have left because it's more stressed need and even though it's like very related to my work. I love it. It's just 
It's a lot of yeah. 
I I just see things happening that I 
Yeah. 
don't agree with anymore. 
Yeah. 
I'm thinking the better way to do this actually for you to have those policies out is like a separate website to be frank. You you'd affect you you'd create more change. 
so I should have led with this. That's what we're trying to build 
Oh. 
Yeah. 
partially is. 
Thank God. I was like don't do it on the 
And and Noah's all one agency, right? But we we are separate from 
noise. Yes. 
sanctuaries all that. 
trees. 
Yeah, but we the goal of this project is to build a data platform and a resource that helps boem but also provides data and 
Okay. I 
Yeah, but we the goal of this project is to build a data platform and a resource that helps poem but also provides data and information for people who want to learn more right who don't know a lot about offshore because it is a lot to keep up with. 
and then how can you affiliate policy change ever? 
exactly and there's a little bit that we can 
Yeah. 
do because we're no end. We have like some authority over things like like whales and fish right? But then the question is how do we build something that's able to affect change for for bohem or for the State of Texas or or you know the city of Galveston something like that? 
So for example, I know that people with the botanical gardens, right? 
Mhm. 
Giving you dumb example and like so 
No good. 
Random, they're really close to the airport curator giving you sample, and they might be the right people to contact about them monarch butterflies. 
Right, right. 
right 
yeah, and 
doing and also I don't know if you 
it's 
knew this, but we have an entire monarch butterfly exhibit at the Field museum. 
not cool. I didn't know that actually. 
Yeah, if you're in Houston, there's an entire. It's like a room and you go in and it's only butterflies. 
Yeah. 
That's cool. 
And and it's cool. So they they might feel Museum of national science might know more about the monarch butterfly migrational patterns actually. 
and that is that's like exactly the type of people we want to get connected with because you're right 
I 
like it's it's they have perspectives that are valuable for the work. 
and it's a different stakeholdership. You know what I mean? 
Yeah. 
It's it's valuable. I feel like people like gaglan Marlin who take their divers out to get Advanced certifications all the time. 
Mm-hmm. 
In the century, you should be talking to them and then there's only one dive Charter out in the Marine sanctuary. And it's called. the Envy fling and there's a new owner and she's somebody you should talk to as well. 
I was actually gonna be one of my last questions. So you're you're ahead of the game unless but that's where we're trying to do something a little different with this project. And so those are like the types of people. We're hoping to get in contact with because you're right. 
Yeah. 
It is it's valuable. It's and it's different than what the government's done in the past. So that's we're hoping we're hoping to to be different in a good way. 
I feel like the government always does things and doesn't ask for. Input which I understand it takes work. I get it. No one wants input. You don't have time to do it. 
Yeah. 
I totally understand it. Trust me. You don't want 
well 
it's 
you are you are quite literally the best example of us wanting to get this type of input and and like these perspectives that we're getting from you right now. It's like I said, it's it's beyond valuable for the type of work and the things that Amy and I think about so 
and I'm trying to think like even you know, so like the ocean Discovery League. Have you heard of them before? 
yes. 
Not related to us necessarily but really cool people. 
Yeah. 
I really like sleeper and stuff. So like, you know, I connected Katie it was so funny. I was really trying to connect them to the sanctuary and I was funny because the same tree was like, oh what I'm no no, really cool. You got to connect because like you just don't know they've come out with this cool device it can do and also I don't know if you know any other sanctuaries that need it keep their awesome. Like they have the macanui which is like a really cool device. It goes down to like 1500 feet. And sorry that's my computer telling me things and it allows you to like record or take photos. It has like a life like an hour like oh 24 hour battery life. It also does temperature probing? And she can rent it to you like for three months as long as you give them feedback. 
but yeah, okay, cool. 
Yeah, I would look them up and if you 
I 
want to if you want an introduction I can give you one. 
awesome All right, we are we're getting close to time. So I'm gonna kill 
