What what really interested in you know your perspective from having decades, but the National Park Service? you know and and clear the whole I guess services that. The park services manages, what are let's start broadly. How you know what? How do you think that offshore wind will impact these ecosystem Services both potential, you know positive and negative impacts? 
Um, well, you know sort of grounding myself in The NPS mission, right? We're conserving unimpaired. units of the natural park system for the benefit this and future Generations, right? So there's definitely ecosystem services that are wrapped up in that largely related to Recreation. But also, Park system units particularly Coastal ones I think provide real important because it's some Services when you're thinking about things like storm surge and flood attenuation. I don't know, you know lowering. I guess the the risk and potential impact of events like you know hurricanes which are big deal in the in the gulf and either through Barrier Island management or or Wetland management. There are well documented because there's some services that flow from that and benefit neighboring communities, you know, if there's also just intangible. stuff right people like national parks, and I think that's the true 
mmm 
globally even if they don't. You know directly recreate in them or or like, you know visit and appreciate them. That way people are conscious of them and And I think that provides value and in real ways. 
Now, do you perceive that? You know offshore wind construction and operation. Could impact some of these but just checking with will we're focused in the Gulf of Mexico for these right because I know  's worked also in areas outside. 
yeah, well, I 
So let's focus on the Gulf of Mexico now, and then maybe we'll we'll touch back on. Other work later, okay. 
Okay. No, understood. Yeah, you know, I I can provide some there are some other examples right offshore of the Carolinas, but you know that where there's projects have been proposed but at any rate, um, yeah, so, you know these Structures right when turbine generators are massive. I think in the in the Gulf of Mexico people are a little more used to the idea of an industrialized landscape out in the ocean in a way. Perhaps folks in other parts of the country are not because of the offshore oil industry, but There's a there's a world of difference between and offshore oil platform and like the scale of modern offshore wind turbine. So I think there are real potential visual effects that have been a concern for the National Park Service. Actually, you know, this is this true for the oil industry as well and we Talk with with boom about their plans for Leasing and development, etc, etc, and and have for a long time in the context of oil and gas and in the offshore space. In the Gulf of Mexico and I think beyond the sort of visual impact. again, some of the things that folks might not think about as much. in terms of onshore impacts that are related to A wind farm development offshore are all so things that concerned the National Park Service, as you know, stewards of federal lands along the coast and the experiences of visitors within us. so to connect up to the grid you need a An export cable and you might need lunch or transmission and those things have been proposed to cross units of the natural park system, and I guess it's in an overarching sort of concern. That we would have in the Gulf of Mexico, even though there are no current proposals for for that. It's just not as far along as these things are in the Northeast and Atlantic. Um You know, we also manage. resources that don't recognize the kind of boundaries that that we put as a political, you know sort of human-centered system 
Hey. 
so they're there are other concerns beyond the like visual impact for for visitors or Um or something like that. That's that's more centered on the the unit itself. For at least part of the time right? There could be Turtles nesting on beaches that we manage that then have to navigate an offshore Wind Farm Birds bats. You name it in fact and and some of those are listed species get a lot of attention and I think we tend to defer to you know, our sister agencies like like Noah right with with real direct jurisdiction over those things in a in a regulatory sense. But but we also share that jurisdiction when they're on our lands or or in water that the National Park Service manages. As part of their life cycle or whatever. So I think that's another sort of potential. Connection in terms of ecosystem service there's there's other species that are that are like commercial the important as well that again if we manage a wetland that's even far in chore. Definitely have commercially important species that spend part of their life cycle there or and like seagrass around. a periodic 
Yeah, because part a big part of it. I'm sure is kind of allow serving as refuge and then habitat. For these other species that's been part of their untaggy in that area. And then yeah come out. 
Okay, yeah. 
I'm done. For for the onshore impacts, you mentioned that. you know, yeah, you mentioned that how the export cables will connect to the grid and that these you know might Um directly go through the National Park Service managed areas. I wanted to kind of step back and also see speak of any potential areas outside beyond the jurisdiction of the National Park Service that for onshore impacts from these as well. It's not just for the National Park Service, but could be you know of just more broader concern than you'd consider. 
Yeah, and and all I'll also mention that that you know, our our concerns go beyond. Our direct jurisdiction, right? So these species again that cross boundaries are are potentially an example of that where there's a particular resource. And again, we might defer to the National marine fisheries service, but we also have our own expertise about that particular species. You know, we employ biologists ecologists. Etc, etc. Folks that have real knowledge about about these the species and we also have programs that Not I don't know. Some of them actually are considered parts of the the national park system. So we have affiliate areas and and that sort of thing where you know, it's it's not it's not a natural park but it's it's something else that we either have some jurisdiction over or we again have special expertise and so in particular, I think I'd want to mention cultural resources. So we're the agency that like manages the national register those those properties that start properties are also important in the economic sense in their value to people as as sort of representative of the story of the country and other cultural contexts when you're talking about some things that are that are listed on the national register, even if we don't directly manage them there are requirements for other federal agencies, like boom to to minimize the effect of their projects on those those resources so National Historic Mark for example, even if the National Park Service doesn't manage it directly. It's managed by some nonprofit or whatever entity. It doesn't matter Bohm has to pay more attention to those than they otherwise would and they might consult with us to gain the benefit of our expertise. 
The declare here too. Nothing you already kind of doing. this is You know the ideas we want to have subject matter experts in like in different areas to make sure we're not missing any to kind of get that deep knowledge, but it doesn't. We don't have to just be like from the jurisdiction of the National Park Service. So that's why all right, and you're not like necessarily representing 
Okay. 
it's almost sure you're presenting your expertise and that but of course expertise and kind of these other broad. Broad areas. So so kind of like this structure. It's like we start from here and then Seem to move outwards so in so for these cultural resources. You know the visual landscape the visual effects you mentioned. Like understand how that would be clearly a problem. You have this historic landscape, and now you have you know, this modern potential visual effect. Do you foresee other potential impacts? 
um, you know the again, the sort of the more more direct stuff when we're talking about, you know, an onshore or transmission line. Also, you know, we talk about visual effects of that a lot in that context in my sort of part of the world and and how I help support system management, but but I think some of some of the other things that would go with any kind of industrial activity off the coast. So the threat of spills of you know, like I don't I don't expect wind turbines to just like fall apart and and become, you know float some on the beach necessarily, but I guess there is that potential. It's not like an oil well out there in terms of potential for first bill, but certainly that is is something that that could happen you also have navigation so all these vessels that are required to construct operate maintain and and eventually decommission. These facilities are an impact and represent. You know potential for spills for trash for whatever to then affect Coastal resources some of which we manage or or even Marine Resources right more directly and 
he 
I don't know. That that probably is the highlights. But but I guess you know also on Shore right? It's not just transmission, but you need a place for cables to land. There's going to be an intensive construction effort in order to bring that stuff on Shore and and tie it into the grid physically and a lot of that effect. I think this is likely to to sort of be. Pretty invisible once it's installed but but for that period of construction and for any major maintenance effort and then eventually decommissioning, that's a that's a potentially significant thing and you know on Shore you're connecting to substation somewhere right that may exist, but it may need to be improved or it may not exist and you may need some, you know, real Greenfield development to support the offshore. been fun 
so there's potential on you know, there's particularly in the construction phase these there's gonna be a lot of boats and things going on. Both in the water and on land. 
Absolutely. Yeah. 
And you mentioned before you know, you mentioned you know that then National Park season, you know manages what you call these on Boundary Resources with partner agencies like Noah in mentioned in particularly several protected. species I want to kind of touch back on that and kind of tease out what those potential impacts could be mentioned Turtles Birds bats and so any other species, you know. species along these lines that you can think of and then kind of go back through and you know talk about what the potential impacts. could be but 
Sure. Yeah, you know, so I think the other big kind of miss that but we haven't included on your list is marine mammals. There's also you know, I mean you you name it right? I'm sure so Fisheries impacts are all so big deal projects and and maybe that's maybe that's the main list but but Fisheries includes, you know, not just not just fish fish but but invertebrates and at any rate, I think so taking it from I think the top the turtles right you have potential disruption to nesting habitat on beaches for an onshore, you know a cable Landing again that's likely to be a temporary impact. That that's intensive. But but over the life of the project that can occur more than that once and there may be some things. I'm not thinking about like lighting of a facility where where you're you've got your your junction box for lack of a better term. 
hmm really jump 
and then right a bit bigger, so 
You know what? 
So so lighting as well offshore. and and that can be associated with with ship traffic as well as the turbots himself right for For for aircraft there, there's mitigation for for all of that. Actually that that you could apply to. Reduce those effects. And I don't think that's a insurmountable thing. But at any rate, there's potential and then birds and bats, right you've got direct, you know collision with with turbine blades or the structures themselves. And and I think that's a well-documented phenomenon. They're also maybe mitigation that could be developed to to reduce the chance of that. And I don't know. They're you know birds and bats also. Potentially run into to transmission lines on Shore, you know in terms of the like scale of these projects. I think that's probably less of a concern than but Wind Farm portion of it. Let's see Marie mammals navigation and and Fisheries impacts, you know the navigation to construct operate maintain Etc. But then you know just these these large. when Farm facilities that are out in the ocean citing those appropriately and and otherwise You know dealing with with the impact to to a fishing Community is another thing that there's potentially mitigation for. but those those potential impacts are real and the subject of some controversy as well. Did I miss any thing? 
he Nope, that was it Turtles flying things and burn some bats Lane rain 
There you go. 
and Fisheries and I kind of want to go ahead and maybe while we're on these Jump Ahead to like. that last part and well, we're just kind of thinking about them is you mentioned that there could be, you know some some mitigation with imagine some of that's technological and some of that management someone to ask you know, what if for each of these You know what? What are those potential mitigation measures and specifically how and where we have could maybe give information as how could you know? Could we inform management or what management actions could be potentially? Undertaken to mitigate those impacts because all the ones for these all of these are mostly negative impacts that have been mentioned. Yeah, I think maybe all of them. 
Yeah. no, and and that's that's a great point, you know, the the other sort of big more Global impact of this is a Renewables for for other energy sources substitution, and and it's It's also something that that we're kind of conscious of as an agency that manages very low-lying parts of the world, right? So thanks for that. It's not it's not all bad me too that at all. 
Explain that again you said substitution set? 
For for like a fossil fuel energy source that it's more carbon intensive. and or creates other emissions Park Terrace manages of class one air should in in Florida Everglades National Park, so so we have some jurisdiction actually that extends beyond the boundaries of that art under the Clean Air Act. This is this is not a particular project type that I think would be concerned about at all in terms of emissions of criteria pollutants in that context and and it's it's good to provide for. Energy in a way that that doesn't create. a lot of greenhouse gas emissions compared to more traditional fossil energy sources which which are You know sort of overall a concern of ours because we manage. Barry Allen's we manage wetlands and and you know the entire National Park system. There's there's no place that's not affected by global climate change. We're off on a tangent there though, I think. 
yeah, no, I want to I want to really actually dig into this the You know that. that when Farms, you know and the big picture that what the wind farms are going to be substitution for oil and gas because they're both providing potentially substitution. It's not necessarily they're not necessarily going to be substitution but to dig more into those those positive and negative impacts. 
also, you know I 
Yeah. 
I don't I don't just from from my chair in my in my current position Provide support on Coastal kinds of issues you know, it's the the sort of Energy System overall and the transition to Renewables as well as you know technologies that that may be developed at at scale like carbon capture and Storage. There's hydrogen is is potentially. Coming on the scene. I don't know there's there's big investment that the current Administration through the department energy is it's rolling out and just recently named these these hubs around the country including one in Texas and and Louisiana based around Houston. All of that is going on in the background. So you have you know coal is is being phased out relatively rapidly at this point and maybe we're we're sort of at the tail end of that even in the United States. I don't know about globally but but at any rate that's that seems like that that's happening. Right? So so a lot of that generation though is being replaced with natural gas fired power plants and and there's also, you know significant Solar Development in this Southeast and they're starting to be storage that's associated with that. And I think that that covers a lot of the the kind of like base load as well as expanded energy needs that are predicted for the future right because of growth and development but there is not a lot of onshore wind in the southeastern United States. There is in Texas, you know, when you're thinking about the Gulf of Mexico as a whole but but again in my part of the world, it's a it's you know, it's very minor part of the overall Energy Mix and offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico is potentially, you know, a fairly significant addition to to that. but you know, it's the the resources is not really there. I don't think compared to other areas of the country like the like the Northeast where you've seen the greatest build out and I again, you know, we're we're focusing on the golf but um at any rate, it could because of the the scale of the energy generated by an offshore wind farm You know really provide in places like Texas and Louisiana a real change to the generation portfolio. That's that's operated by. Power companies in the area and I think that's that's interesting. Just just kind of on its own and likely a good thing from the perspective of global climate. 
So it sounds like is that too? It's I mean bro. I mean we're trying to tease this apart because you know for the specific project, but there is also these broader synergistic effects because this isn't going on and I isolation. because 
hmm 
so, you know because even you know off for when they contributes to the you know a more electrified economy. So that they're they're just kind of contributes to this. Like Nationwide transition to renewable energy. 
Correct. Yeah, I guess another another thing is that I think the There is a Workforce in and around the Gulf of Mexico. That is. Like I don't know poised to become and and probably already is participating in in you know, this this developing industry in the US as well as in other parts of the world. I mean, there's guys from Louisiana that drive boats globally right to provide service and and otherwise 
Mm-hmm. 
support the offshore oil industry. Elsewhere and and I don't expect that that that's in any way gonna kind of change right just because the technology for energy production is is different. You know fundamentally. This is large industrial kind of development. offshore and and there are people in the Gulf Coast the United States that that have been doing that for for decades there's a tradition of it and and real support. politically educationally culturally for for that sort of thing Those are good paying jobs. There is real kind of synergy, even with like, you know, again more extractive industries that that aren't likely to, you know, they're not going to vanish overnight number one and and are going away just in general. I don't think It's maybe personal opinion and and like gets to stuff that I don't know what I'm talking about. But but you know, we're gonna continue to to make plastic and and like have you know need to Fly aircraft with with liquid fuels etc. Etc. It's just not We're Not Gonna fully Electrify our economy. 
even 
Certainly not not next year and and any rate. That's a something where again this this sort of development offshore is going to coexist with with other industrial uses of the coast in the Gulf of Mexico that have been going on for a long time and people people talk about it as as like a working Coast in in Louisiana where I spent some time and I think that's continue on into the future not that there aren't other parts of the US or the world better like that. But at any rate it will have I don't know sort of benefit to society there through the provision of jobs and and other opportunities. 
to this is like a direct forecast, but that light. We can't just you know, it's you. you can't assume that you know putting Offshore wind farms off. The coast is gonna basically totally substitute for oil and gas it that bringing you know it even if you're generating, you know gigawatts of of energy that It seems like way that you know in the course, these are Big questions that are Beyond any of us, but it seems like we're gonna have probably both at least for the foreseeable future. 
I think that's right. Let's spot all yeah. 
Well, are we getting kind of are we getting off the rails or like I just want to make sure I'm not getting too far into these radicals and get interested in. 
There's no such thing up rails when film modeling. This is all inbound. 
I do. I do kind of want to I want to recap some of the kind of these. Some of these impacts that are mentioned. and then and kind of bring them back to light see if see if there's kind of potential more that come to mind because I feel like as we think through it like you mentioned like like the workforce that's supposed to participate. That's definitely you know, these jobs as a social impact I go back through some of these and then then also think about potential again these potential management actions that could help mitigate the negative impacts or help support potential positive. impacts some of the things that I have in my notes So far or visual effects. For for offshore wind of the although. It's important that you like you said Dimension that the gulf already has oil and gas platforms. So it's also can be might be different for the golf compared to you know, the Northeast for example or the Pacific Northwest. We talked to good amount about considering onshore impacts for the that these export cables are going to be connecting. to the grid and these these brought up a number of different potential impacts one that I thought. That I hadn't heard mentioned before that that was super interesting is cultural resources. It's made inside and outside the National Park Service. and then and then digging into these pretty protected resources Turtles. both offshore and onshore impacts disruption of nesting habitats lighting ship traffic and increase strikes Birds and bats because the drug Collision to the blades and then also transmission lines marine mammals. and Fisheries another commercial important species will be navigation impacts and during these will probably differ during the construction operation and then also decommissioning and that there could we want to consider spills and trash. and in jobs as a potential in the workforce, especially in places like Louisiana and Texas that are already working coasts will be a an impact from offshore wind 
So yeah, there's there's a lot there. Um, yeah, so so I think running 
Yeah. 
running kind of down the down the list with turtles, right? I think that's that's fairly straightforward to to deal with in terms of lighting, right? It should be the you know, the only the required lighting, right? For for or an offshore facility and it should be properly, you know shielded directed so that that it illuminates what needs to be illuminated and nothing more. There are also like radar systems like can't remember the the name of these things off the top of my head, but for the the turbines themselves that have fa made it a lighting on them because they're so tall that turn. The lights off if there are no aircraft in the area. So this sort of default this for them to be off and that that deals with some of the visual impact as well likely some of the impact for for Birds bats in addition to to Turtles. There's other stuff that is related to the like color of these facilities. 
hmm 
That that has a potential. mitigating effect for visual which includes potentially, you know the scene from a cultural resource or a visitor who's standing on the beach in a you know the park system, but that also potentially is beneficial to like birds bats. There's like monitoring work and and also, you know like I think think backing up a step. Stuff that that but Noah does quite a bit in terms of research into where Fisheries resources or other sensitive resources are in the marine environment. The National Park Service has expertise when it comes to the units of the park system that we manage and perhaps otherwise as well where either information needs to be developed or you need to collect and then you know site facilities With the the sort of understanding of where it's a different resources might be so that you can avoid them or minimize the effects on them. I think that's potentially particularly important in terms of Fisheries, maybe marine mammals as well and and there's other mitigation for for like Construction. That I'm aware of that's directly related to to those so like speed limits or for navigation. Things like, you know soft starts for pile driving. You've sort of least Force. That that's necessary to actually drive structures into the seabed bubble curtains that kind of thing. that are all protected of Marie mammals to one extent or another potentially other species one thing that I have it said I don't think is that you know having these structures out in the ocean. It's also, you know habitat and and that potentially benefits certain species and Fisheries as well. So, you know for sure people fish offshore near oil rigs and I would expect that there's Least some of that that would go on recreationally around a wind farm as well. as it seasons in and 
he 
Fishes it as epitome Let's see. Yeah, I don't know. I mean there's there's a list of mitigations probably a mile long, right and and These are these are complicated projects, right and for sure. I know you guys are conscious of that. I know that bone is now perhaps more conscious of it than than they were when they they started their offshore Renewables program. really start to books in on wind Let's see. You know, there's a there's also potential for for like compensatory mitigation, right? So if you're if you're gonna somehow You know, if you're gonna if you're gonna kill an eagle or a bat, whatever are you are you doing something to to manage habitat somewhere else or you paying in lieu of doing that? and and I think there's there's other potential examples in the context of cultural resources, even you know, there's convinced story damages that entity like the National Park Service might charge right? I I don't know that there's an example of of that related to a an offshore Wind Farm but it's at least at least technically there might be debate about this. It's a it's a possibility something that we we might be able to do. 
That's a mechanism. that for mitigate or for management and 
right 
mitigation 
So I think they're yeah there there 
the 
are potentially a number of mechanisms for like the official eye service for example to require compensation for impacts to list it species. 
se that's not something I've been really thought about that if that if we had I guess I assume you would need basically evidence. for this to know if you're gonna have this impact a specifically some of these protected species you mentioned Turtles Birds bats. brain mammals that there could be other compensations for monetary other ways to create habitat 
Yeah, so not just not just the answer to the evidence of the impact but also the evidence that the like change in management or money. You were gonna apply somehow is is gonna make a difference, right? imagery the lift I don't know. This is pretty common in. Wetland Management in that context as well that might be an example, but you know But at any rate, um, it's it's complicated for sure to to your 
Yeah. 
Right? You really do have to demonstrate a number of things and Like all kinds of mitigation schemes, you know have been documented to have failed in one way or another it's not it's not easy to do. Just a possibility. 
as we get to another hour I want to Respectful of your time. I just want to check back with Will and how he's doing. What? the model and 
I'm I'm okay. 
To have any questions or if we missed 
Yeah, I'm okay on my usually at this 
anything. 
point  . We open it up to see if there's anything else that's kind of on your mind that you have a chance to connect. There's gonna be opportunities also outside the interview to add on to your mental model in case you do think of things afterwards, but is there anything else that's kind of on your mind that you haven't a spot to add in or are you feeling Like you've been pretty comprehensive. 
No it yeah, I think I've been fairly comprehensive. I mean, you know one thing we haven't talked about is the sort of the the like legal and and other sort of framework around all of this like how these projects are developed and approved is is intently complex and it's a challenge to Agencies like the National Park Service particularly with the emphasis that the current Administration has placed on offshore wind. again, you know, we we haven't we haven't seen the the sort of effect on us as managers and as an agency having to to sort of react to this in the Gulf compared to places like the Northeast but You know, the the potential is there I guess and and it's it's it takes a lot of time and effort to figure all this stuff out and it operates in a you know, legal and political space. That's highly complex. And requires, you know real expertise to navigate I think. you know like and they're also there are there are conflicting mandates and and I guess goals that a bunch of different agencies the developer their Consultants Only to come together to try and solve in a political context, right? So you need to think about the commercial Fishers recreational Fishers in the area, you know people in use beaches and you know, yeah, right all kinds of political subdivisions and and the people that make them up. their goals and Whatnot. So, I don't I don't know. I talked about a big circle there and maybe didn't say very much. But but at any rate. It's it's been I know a a sort of. Frustrating journey in in some respects for for us as an agency in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic. for the the rollout of these projects and and it's not like the National Park Service again doesn't sort of appreciate. one form of energy over another there's just trade-offs with everything and we're trying to kind of do the best we can for for the resources that we're responsible for. Trying to meet the Mandate that we have as an agency. 
yeah, there's so much tied into it. for when 
Absolutely. Yeah now in the energy of independent, right? It's always a priority in one way or another for any Administration. You cared a name and everybody has opinions about it too, right? And to get we all want the lights to come on, you know. 
there's so many agencies and groups involved in so many stakeholder that are affected. Um, yeah because there's environment there's economics, it crosses a lot of scientific disciplines It's complex. 
indeed 
then I think that's probably a good place to cut it off. 
