we are moving in that direction and this is going to be a major contribution because of the size of it. We have done some in the past, but they were. Really in a very small scale. This is a larger scale. Or recent building in the Gulf of Mexico. So they're going at it again. So and we or BOEM needs to figure out really. how to interpret that what we learned from that Certainly, the market sent a signal. That maybe this is going to fast. 
Yeah. 
so they there are many different. Angles on this many different concerns and a bunch of Articles were written and I have read some of them. In it last several weeks on the topic in as to what what led to that. No bidding. outcome but it's it's very important to Look at that carefully, so. Maybe we learned a lot more when they go at it again in a couple months or so. so 
Yeah for sure. That's the second time you brought up scalar effects. So just curious if you have any ideas of thresholds or at what point these scalar effects sort of kick in and the first thing you mentioned was on the cost of energy to people. 
well, the I think there are multiple effects of the scales. On the economic side of it the scale. Could increase in this scale? could be just an example of a standard example of economies of the scale that could be actually cost savings. And as a result could lower the price. I haven't done empirical analysis of that but it stuff that I've read related to win energy suggests that possible to definitely exists certainly with the cable lines that they draw the transmission centers I think they would be a lot of cost savings there then when they have a larger scale on the other hand the environmental effects on a vicious species in the ocean would also worsen with the scale. when they have a large number of these forms next together. The effect would be probably a lot more can. the sum of these individual platforms effects so there is this. Negative is to get scale effect environmentally. I I must say that however when it comes to Increase in fish population if indeed it leads to increase population. there might preliminary analysis and some analysis by marine biologists in the past at the smallest scale suggest that Is possible that density of these old rigs in this case? wind platforms may have actually a much bigger effect in terms of playing the role of artificial rings then the sum of the individual platforms so in other words the scaling effect when it comes to the role of artificial wreath would be would be positive and that also would be non-linear so to speak right? 
Oh. 
As as the cost saving is non-linear, but the environmental negative environmental effects. Appear to be also known linear and maybe increasing facts. 
Yeah. You kind of went to where my next question was going, but you had talked about the aggregation and possible increase in production. If you have anything else to add I guess on either side of that of the mechanism. So after wind affecting the fish and then what affects those fish might have on the broader ecosystem. If you could delve into that. 
Yeah, we're gonna repeat that. I had to check something. 
yeah, so going off the Top of you. Just brought up of the fish aggregation and possible increase in 
right 
production. I want to delve a little bit more into the mechanism behind that both of you mentioned density. But is there anything else we should be considering about how that actually plays out and then On the the flip side of once you have the fish. What effects do those have? 
Yeah, there are. some literature And it's something that empirically on examining is not really finalized that it may. as it encourages aggregation it may increase spawning But it is actually more likely. That is question, but it is more likely that actually it reduces the natural mortality. at young age So the survival rate may go up. For young fish and that may be the reason for the cross. 
That makes sense. 
again at the end of the day is an empirical question. 
There's a lot of those. 
Yeah. 
Yeah. So then the second part of that. In theory if you get more fish what effects do those fish have out on the ecosystem as a whole including humans? 
Well, you mean if there is a indeed positive production effect. 
Yes. 
Well that that would be by definition positive. That is we have we will have more 
Well, yeah. 
fish to consume and would be less worried about Decreasing the size of the stocks so certainly is desirable. 
All right. All right on to the next question even more into the realm of not your expertise. So what else do you think or do you know or think might change about the Gulf of Mexico as a result of offshore wind? This doesn't have to be related to economics or something that you know for sure but sort of what have you heard? 
He said very early stages. I am not getting a whole lot. But if for example what has occurred in the northeast or the concerns that were brought up by interest groups would come through. For example one effect would be say. tourism or another effect would be the impact on the value of properties. property values I speculate that it may drop actually. on tourism It appears that or this is what I extract from things that I'm reading that in the short run it would have probably a positive effect on tourism. Because of curiosity because of novelty. in in the long run it may have a negative effect, but there could be if you look at tourism for recreation of fishing, for example. it may be even in the longer positive because it could potentially. 
Yeah. 
provide decides where aggregation official occurs and fisherman could have higher cash per unit effort. having said that there is a catch there. and that is it is likely that some of these areas would be. Fishing in some of these areas would be prohibited actually. 
right 
If they are excluded. That is not going to help either recreational or commercial fisherman. actually, I have also a long as it one of the consequences of that if indeed that happens is that It could become a safe haven. for fish to to grow a multiply Away from the hands of fisherman. So fish populations could grow actually in that area because of that but if fishing is allowed and I think the fisherman would enjoy but this topic may come up. And major concern there would be safety. and cost of insurance 
a good point So you talked a little about? recreational and I think implied commercial but are you thinking of those similarly like they're all going after the same fish or do you think they'll have different effects? 
well, they may not Target the same fish but From what I understand with respect to oil rigs. It is typically more recreational fisherman that use these old platforms or at least retired or platforms. to to fish around 
Yeah. 
so I am not reading or hearing as much about commercial official man doing that, but it seems to draw the iteration of fisherman a lot more. 
makes sense 
That may have something to do with the gears that they use. It's not my domain really but I expect my light. 
alright Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, so you've talked a little about oil rigs in the natural gas industry as a whole. just trying to help will draw the lines between What do you think the interplay between those sects of the energy industry are going to look like? like the physical structures and sort of where people get their energy from 
Okay, I'm not quite clear on the question. Would you repeat that or rephrase it? 
Yeah thinking about. Oil and gas the industry as a whole both the rigs that they have out in the water and sort of their presence within the gulf ecosystem as an economic Force. How do you think the relationship between those parts of the energy industry will? Play out. 
Yeah, I I still do not follow your question on play out. Are you talk about oil and gas or did you need to include also wind power or you did it? 
Well when doesn't exist yet. So I guess the question is if wind puts itself out there. How does it fit into that larger? energy community 
Okay, how wind power energy fits into larger? energy, which include particular oil 
yeah. 
and cats 
Well, I'm thinking of the physical rigs but yes given we're talking about the Gulf. 
Yeah, yeah. Actually another you mentioned this aquaculture. Is another concern talking about conflicts? 
yeah. 
so I suspect that will probably knows a lot more about this when they chose these areas. For wind power. They probably try not to place them close to all platforms. Do when you go out there. In the Gulf of Mexico. There are a lot of oil platforms. So I would imagine I would not be easy to avoid them. so because their their presence is already an environmental intervention, right? So and then adding more of these platforms be it. For wind or for oil? It means more intervention. of course as we discuss has some positive effects potential. AR effects versus negative effect on fishes species and actually I my initial studies and focus as I was asked was more on sound. Because one of the negative effects brought these speaking of the presence of this wind power is is noise. the pounding in the process of developing it and then also the electric man magnetics of transmission. These are major negative effects. On growth of fishy species. So again some of them those that are limited to the development area. Or temporary by temporary. I mean by a couple of years or so that it takes to build them. But some others like transmission. Process and being the magnetic is going to be there for decades right as long as the transmission is occurring. 
Yep. 
so and I have been maybe one of you that has expressed concern about rapid installation as its plan of these turbines wind turbines I'm talking about throughout the US because of the share number of them that are being added. and also the speed so there has been a large number of them in the North Sea and actually the number one country in terms of number of wind turbines is is not England or some other European countries is China. but the problem is that the information on their activities is somewhat Limited. 
hmm 
especially they have a tendency to to hide bad information so But overall we really don't know as much about them as we know about. European countries Associated, England and Netherlands and so 
Yep. 
yeah, I do have some concern about this speed and scale in the US. and and I Hi, Frankie. Wonder if the industry does too. Would that be one reason that they didn't build? in the last reading process that's auction. So 
Yeah, that's a good question. Yeah, I was gonna ask about the short versus long-term effects. Well specifically about construction versus long term operation of the turbines. You mentioned you call that a few things but That construction phase is bigger and like you said potentially all at once. So are there effects? That are present in one phase and not the other of what we've talked about. or something else 
I think they are really different effects. so like short term, I mean by short, I mean they development part apparently takes two three years if not longer. But you may consider that kind of short-term or medium term. The negative effect is a different type. Like I said. the the noise the traffic from ships that are going to be navigating that area and helped it the development. So certainly I think during the development period they may exclude that area from fishing activities. So certainly fisherman are going to be addressing affected. and in the 
Hm. 
successful component when we had the beginning of Mexico the first stage. that the beat was much a smaller than Northeast but the amount of money that they set aside if I remember correctly to compensate fisherman was something in the order of 
M. 
half million or so I don't recall the exact number, but it was negligible. so I don't know what that means that. If especially there are prohibited efficient that area. They can still fish but they need to go longer routes. 
right 
And in some cases because a primary concern in the Gulf was shrimp. Then would in the new areas that they would fish. would still have what they have is still access to shrimp. Would they be as? productive with their cash per unit effort is more likely it's going to draw up. The fuel consumption is going to rise. so they would have most definitely some losses there. And and what is interesting is actually it is still they're making some changes with the new geography areas. But it may still be primarily in the shrimp area because shrimp is so important in Texas area. And and we know that for decades Sharon fishermen have been economically under pressure. They're doing very poorly. They're at the margin. In terms of profitability and there 
Mm-hmm. 
have been assisted by. funds that they received from BP oil spill, of course the audience will also Hurt them financially, that's why they receive compensation. Later. but they also had been receiving money from enter down payment duties imposed on Imports and and that is also disappearing. So they as is their Financial in this course situation. And it's like you can just get worse. 
Yeah, there's a lot going on there. For sure. 
Yeah. 
All right last overarching question of all the things we talked about today. What management actions do you think would be able to affect the relationships we discussed? 
Yeah, that's very broad question. 
Yes. indeed They don't have to be real feasible ones. I mean you mentioned things like The density in which they put them out there whether or not fishermen are allowed in those sorts of management. potentials 
yeah, they I think for shrimp fisherman is a big question. Still for us because they have limited regulations the most of the species of shrimp or animal. So they don't last long. 
right 
but they could hypothetically and I'm not necessarily suggesting that but if they want to help survival of the profitability of transmission one solution would be limited number of vessels that are phishing. and of course another alternative is to look externally. go after The Dumping situation. with Imports Sharon fisherman have been pushing for that for decades. And they had lots of success initially. But gradually these enter down into this I mean lifted. but the primary source of cheap Imports is expanding. And guess what that is. aquaculture The percentage of world production of friend from alcohol culture is rising. so and that is certainly the case for sure. So and there isn't a whole lot. I think that they can do about some of those may be. supported by the government of these countries and that's what they need to go after. so yeah until dumping duties, maybe something that Put come to their assistance. I know that. this golf shrimp a lot Alliance or Saturn trip allowances and organization of I guess shrimp Harvesters is has been pushing hard on this they're very concerned about Imports. so that that would be big research project that I may in the future undertake that what are the roots of the problem in economically for transmission and what our potential Solutions so And like I said, some of them maybe out of our control. there are it's a part of capitalism and Technology advances new Industries are created or production process of Industries evolve. and there would be a winners and losers and and in the long run you cannot resist these changes. so you could maybe. Aim at addressing compensation for the for the losers somehow. a strategic resource policy and address these issues that one of them would be this anti-dumping Duty. It's a trade policy with desireable impact for Gulf of Mexico shrimp Fisher But you need to have in terms of the World Trade Organization. You need to have Foundation a reason and argument for it. And there are losing some of these battles in the WTO. So and if you just impose barriers tariffs. On them under unjustifiably then. There would be consequences there. So. 
make sense well, those are all of our formal questions. I'm going to toss it over to will to see if he has any follow-ups as he tried to build our model. 
I don't have anything specifically but at this point  , we usually we open it back up to you to see if there's anything else on your mind related to Offshore wind that you didn't have a chance to add in. 
I think to some extent. There are some really unanswered questions and this one for the US. Again by main concerns would be the scale and Rapid expansion. And the uncertainties are about the effect of these. And and not just environmentally that certainly an impact that we are concerned about. But also an interest groups, right? What happens to fisherman that will be our direct concerned? But what happens to the tourism? What happens to property values? What happens to the communities? there it is. Wind hormones are going to be installed. They have property values are affected or Certainly at the beginning. Apparently there's a positive effect on them in terms of income the parents and a lot of business for them. But how about later? Would there be any any concerns so I think we should look at? Other countries that are far ahead of us. And learn from them. See, what are the negative consequences when it what we need to watch for? And how we need to address the concerns of the interest groups. I think we are doing much better. Than maybe they did or even us did in the early stages in terms of communicating with interest groups and receiving inputs from them. and that in itself is important actually not in order to identify problem sources and making compensations when it's necessary, but also gaining their support. That we are here to listen we care about what it's like to happen to you. And we would be interested in addressing your concerns.  
