For offshore wind development and let's focus first on kind of Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico. What what are the most important? Impacts that you're foreseeing from offshore wind development so impacts being both benefits and potential concerns. That you're you know that like did you guys and the southeast win Coalition is working on so benefits and potential negative and impacts for both the construction and operation for offer when development. 
Um, I can kind of hop in here and then we can we can fill in with 
now 
as they have thoughts. So. as far As opportunity goes I mean Louisiana is extremely well suited to take on a lot of this industry that does not exist in the US yet. So we've got fabrication experience. We've got ship experience. We've got lots of ports. We're good at sticking stuff to the sea floor. So there are there are lots of things that Louisiana could do well and particularly I would say with Republicans the economic benefits are the primary selling point and the reason that they are still in this as far. As far as we can tell I think my biggest concern has to do with environmental issues around state waters, which I'm sure you'll have heard quite a bit about but that has the potential to derail things. I think in a way that would be detrimental for federal leasing as well. And so being really careful in how that State versus Federal process is unfolding is really important. I would say for Louisiana the biggest barrier that we see and that will prevent offshore wind from supplying power to Louisiana is that we have basically no market for wind here. So unless the state steps up and puts in some mechanisms and does some work as far as procurement and solicitation goes then having an actual Market here is going to be pretty difficult. 
so is that an egg is that the economic barrier is that you said? There's no market for wind or is there do you need the infrastructure or is it both? 
I would say both. I mean, I think what I'm specifically thinking about is You know. This is going to be too expensive for anyone to do without some help somewhere. And you know, this is gonna be very expensive power. So, I don't know if you have thoughts there Katharine. 
I mean in its simplest form you need policy. So the way that the Northeast has made offshore wind work is by looking at the environmental as well as economic benefits and then saying okay. Well we need in order to decarbonize Salt it's really so far has been all about decarbonization. So as long as as a state you are committed to decarbonization, then you need offshore wind if you have it available to you. If you have no decarbonization mandate not goal mandate. there's it's offshore wind is not going to be competitive on the open electricity Market. You can't just sell into miso South and you know, it's gonna cost you nonsense a kilowatt hour to generate it. Well, probably more than that 9 10 11 cents and you're gonna get three sets. It's not gonna work out very well for you. 
so so it seems like the economics are are like the competitive market economics or the biggest barrier. They said the biggest selling point are the economic benefits for it. And I think I have some ideas for what that is. But for our model, can you guys tease tease out those economic benefits? 
I I can kind of start on there at least as far as how I think about it in my head. So I think when I think about economic benefits for Louisiana, that is very separate from development in 
up 
the Gulf of Mexico. very real Possibiana could do a lot of the manufacturing work a lot of the you know. Background work that you do for this in other places and never have development in the Gulf of Mexico if we can't figure or stuff out so when I'm thinking about that, I'm thinking about like The Economic Opportunity for Louisiana is for our small businesses and local businesses. And that doesn't have to come from development in the Gulf of Mexico. And in fact that's already coming a lot. development elsewhere 
Emily's you're you're nodding along. Yeah even additional thoughts for 
Yeah. 
that. You know, it's kind of specific for, Louisiana. 
Where my mind goes when when we're talking about stuff like this is specifically to our Mariner populations are boating industry in general. We have captains that can transport these big heavy pieces of equipment a lot more effectively than you can you know across driving across country. We have the experience and specifically in the mom and pop industry of like tugboats and things like that. It's a very localized kind of community where you know, if you have three or four tugboats, you can run a very successful company here and getting those smaller organizations involved with such a big industry would create a boom for specifically coastal regions in Louisiana and economic. Boom. 
now before you mention that you know the key. I wanted to also pull on that thread too of you mentioned key environmental concerns in state waters in that that could derail Federal leasing. So that's I think those would be key, you know components to try to capture here for this model because this would be what you know, and environmental indicator could help assess to potentially mitigate or alleviate or at least monitor that yeah, so I want to go back. What are those to that statement? You said before the environmental concerns and state waters that could derail Federal Leasing? 
so alright so statewatters, um, essentially a lot of a lot more animals just live closer to the shore. So the closer you get to where the water meets land the more likely you are to have significant impacts in Louisiana in particular. We are directly along the Gulf of Mexico Flyway, which is a migratory path for birds and we do not have a lot of information about how birds land when they complete their migrations. So that's kind of one outstanding piece of data. That's like, you know, that could be completely incompatible with wind turbines at certain points of the year the other Concern particularly Avi. This is Shorebirds, which Shorebirds tend to fly along the coast and so with Louisiana development being in those first three miles of state waters. That's where Shorebirds and particularly birds like Pelicans are kind of Traverse the coast in those Nearshore Waters. So there could also be some, you know, potentially very significant impacts there. We just truly do not know. You know what the data will tell us so there is a and like y'all coming from Noah or very aware of this there has been no spatial assessment of Louisiana's Coast done. So there's no you know, this Pelican Rookery is off limits sort of stuff. And so that is a component of the state master plan, which should hopefully, you know start to fill in those gaps, but the larger concern there is that for people who are in this world. The federal versus state is very clear, but for a lay person in Louisiana that's really hard to explain and it's even harder to explain that the poem process is good because they do all of this stuff and the state process does not do all of this stuff. So that's another really significant barrier. We're anticipating is just making sure people are understanding what's happening because there's a Real chance that they may not. 
that's I don't think I will fully thought about that. So the can you explain that a little more to someone that? Knows pretty, you know, literally, you know more about this policy and regulation. So for this does the state not have to go through them the same environmental impact assessment that boem and at the federal to do the federal waters. Can you talk a little bit more about comparing that? 
Absolutely. This is my wheelhouse get ready. 
Oh. 
So the Bowen process starts with deconfliction and the Louisiana process starts with a developer selecting an area and saying we would like to build here. The operating agreements which are functioning as leases are granted prior to any environmental review. So in the permitting process there will be some sort of environmental review. It will likely not be nearly as comprehensive or thorough as the job that boem does. I don't know how deep you are in permitting but the federal side of that will be led by the Army Corps of Engineers and the Army Corps does not like being in charge of Permitting. So that's already kind of another barrier as well. So when we talk about people getting confused about things like, you know, if someone hears well, they didn't even look at What else was around before they selected this site, you know making sure that they understand that that's not the case in federal waters is a tough needle to thread. 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Okay. Yeah, that's that's worth knowing. It's something I haven't thought about before. I wanted I'd like to ask you guys to talk about some of the experiences having worked in Louisiana here and then the work that the southeast Coalition is doing like it's North Carolina and Virginia, right? So kind of made Atlantic off for wind development. um, yeah for what, you know, what are you know based on this idea of developing a conceptual model for Our overall goal of you know, pulling out these ecosystem and social. component Yeah, it can like he has to start kind of talking about comparing Louisiana to the Mid-Atlantic development, which is a little bit for the long right? And so what lessons can we maybe um, should we be aware of and learn for the Gulf of Mexico development? 
I'm happy to jump in. I think that's that's certainly a broad. a broad topic, so I'll and I can get off track very easily so somebody can just wave wave down and Reign me in I mean Compared to a lot of the other Southeast States. I think that Louisiana has some very specific assets that make it ideal for some of that Economic Development which is why the state has I think propelled itself as far as it has in this offshore wind conversation, you know that it's it's by far the lowest wind speeds of any state that is in this offshore wind conversation. And yet it's further along than a state like South Carolina or a state like Texas. And so I think that the reason that is is because of the transferability of a lot of both the physical. Shoreline assets but also the workforce assets so thinking about people who are trained in oil and gas. This is a viable, you know, I don't want to say alternative but option for folks who have historically worked in the oil and gas sector, you know, if you think about moving from oil and gas to solar the pay's not even sort of kind of in the same realm and so you're not going to do that. But if you think about moving from oil and gas to fabrication of parts or to being a wind turbine Tech who's out on the water those positions do pay I'm gonna say equal but but you know, those offshore-based positions are are very competitive. So I think that you know, that's that's kind of from the the workforce perspective and then thinking about the shoreline assets, you know, Louisiana has a lot of a lot of open port space that you just don't get in a lot of other states. So, you know, I'll give you South Carolina as an example. Well, I'll give South Carolina in North Carolina and frankly, Virginia. When we talk with ports authorities in those States they can host. Small to medium-sized port-based businesses, but they don't have these hundred plus acre Port spaces that are totally unused and ready for you know, a massive lay down yard or a massive manufacturing facility. So if you you know, if you're looking for a place with a couple hundred acres. Louisiana is a great place to go searching. You know, I've talked with one of the things they'll say in South Carolina is like, oh, well, we've got our cars so we don't really need you all. I hope that they don't stick to that to that rhetoric for too long. But you know, they they ship thousands of cars every day and their ports are very busy. It's not like their ports are looking for new business. And so I think when you look at Louisiana, that's that's a very different opportunity. Jenny anything you want to add? 
not 
Well one thing that's coming across my mind, and I don't know that this is super relevant that I think given the context of Louisiana. It's interesting. one of the you know When when is attacked here it's often attacked as anti-oiling gas or you know boiling. We're an oil and gas State, you know, that sort of stuff and the couple of problems with that or number one. We know that boiling gas is employing less people overall extraction techniques have gotten so efficient that they have to hire less people which like good for them. But for a state like Louisiana, that's like a very real effect for workers. And the other thing with that is that wind could also be an opportunity to kind of break out of the boom and bust cycle of oil and gas which has historically been very tough for Louisiana and it's been very noticeable when we've gone through those phases. And so that's just kind of another thing that feels worth mentioning to me. 
Is that because the price of oil that you know, those shut down hole plants because the oil prices go down and it's no longer. 
Yeah, I mean it's it's a lot of factors, you know, they occasionally they close plants here, which is also a huge thing. But yeah, the boiling gas leasing is you know goes through a similar boom and bust cycle. 
This is energy. I guess like the electrical. From potential is offshore wind expected to be less more stable. 
Well manufacturing would be more to I mean, you know, I don't know that there's necessarily a good argument that wind would be well, I think there's an argument that wind would be more stable. But we do have very real data on the market cycles of oil and gas and how that has affected Louisiana's economy. And so I don't know. I feel like there's when people say, you know oil and gas takes care of us. It's always, you know, we we can rely on it. It's our it's our buddy. I feel like a lot of the context is missed of kind of how how poorly oil and gas treats, Louisiana. 
Why is it the you know like that when I looked at Southeast wind Coalition guys are only working in Louisiana the goal. Why is that the only state? that he has a working and golf of Mexico 
um, ercott Katharine, do you have a different answer? 
um Yeah, Alabama and Mississippi. are well won the resources and it the resource dies down as you move toward, Florida. um, so the wind resource so the wind resources and is good and two it's it's I mean I would say it's political but I think there's a lot of shared politics there. I think Louisiana just recognizes The Economic Opportunity. They and Louisiana does have a whole lot more coastline than than, Mississippi and Alabama. Texas yeah, I think I think Texas is a combination of you know mentioned. Urcott Texas is very much a free market electricity Market. through and through from generation to retail sales, so they've got very Usually unless Supply is constrained. They have really cheap electricity. So and you kind of get into that. Are you really going to build something? That's more expensive? The only reason you would do that is if you had carbon constraints in Texas must definitely does not have plans for carbon constraints. So 
Um, yeah, I mean there's a lot of cheap land-based wind in, Texas. 
Mm-hmm. 
The other I don't know how much I'll know about like the auction and why the two Texas areas didn't sell but there were kind of two factors going into that one of which is that the Texas land commissioner said that she would not approve any nutrition to Texas through offshore. So Pretty pretty risky bet to get a lease there. The second one is the Texas Railroad Commission which sounds very innocuous but like controls all of the oil and gas in Texas. They right before the lease as well. They also released an article about how wind offshore wind was bad for the environment essentially which like bad faith, but you know, what are you gonna do? 
What? Yeah taken to that. What what did they say would be bad for the environment? And what is your responses to that? 
I'll send you the article. It was like an op-ed by one of the leaders of the Texas Railroad Commission. But basically that we you know don't know enough about it. It's harmful blah blah. And so and I will tell you my actual response to that was this is not for us to respond to this is for an e NGO to respond to because this is not You know, I feel like we do a good job of making sure we are recognizing and carefully treating environmental issues. But it's also not an area that we claim expertise in and so, you know, I that was my genuine reaction was like well this is all wrong, but we are not the people to respond. 
You know. 
I was thinking more in terms of like the conceptual modeling, but I'm actually not sure how you come pull that but more just broadly again, I guess not 
like 
as an official response to that but just kind of pulling on like what those ideas are. I just kind of pull out like what are some of the perceptions that are out there about this development and what are what's your views on that 
um So I want to give Emily especially a chance to talk here because I'm curious with her being more new kind of what her read on that is. I have noticed kind of overall a real willingness particularly by conservative groups to use the environment as a scapegoat when it's negative. But to never really say that anything is good for the environment. So like I feel like there's a lot of conversation of like, oh, well, this is gonna hurt our environment but like there's never a reversed, you know, well this would with the exception of coastal restoration to some point. but I think that's an interesting Dynamic and I think it's I think it's very purposeful, especially with you know, the whale misinformation and kind of the ongoing battle that's been happening there. I think that that's an easy thing to bait right now. 
Yeah, I'd like to hear your thoughts Emily. 
Um being newer and living in the region that we will see a lot of this manufacturing or economic, you know, employment opportunities. There's not a lot of people talking about wind. Um, just like your everyday layperson isn't having a kind of conversation about wind and I think there is A time frame that we have to get correct information to the public about what is harmful. What is not harmful what the realities of this are and we're kind of approaching that window. Now as we're starting to see more development when there are tangible things that say people working on the river or at the ports or they're dealing with that start seeing things to do with offshore wind or even the state water development stuff that could be going on in port fourchon or you know on on land development of a turbine there. It's going to start raising more questions then there is a kind of very small town feel in these Bayou communities and that's kind of how information travels right so Some of the most effective ways to be able to get to people that are living here is through the economic development and through the Workforce Development that we're going to be seeing through, you know, our community college system our technical college system. So what I'm thinking about like what they're hearing and what they're saying right now, they're not saying much and currently they're not hearing a whole lot but that could change really really quickly and that's kind of the the window that we're approaching right now. 
Yeah in Emily. 
I 
Oh, sorry. Go ahead William. 
no, please please I have a follow up at all. I'll let you go first. 
well, Emily jogged my mind on a couple things that especially anyway, one of them was it's hard to do Outreach without projects and it's particularly hard to like you want to have something real to talk about you don't want to say like oh this could happen or this could happen or you know like to actually teach communities about what's going to be happening. You have to know what's gonna be happening, which is its own battle the other interesting comparison that I'm curious how much you'll run across this in your research is carbon capture is a really good what not to do Playbook on community engagement in Louisiana right now, like everyone is very upset with how they've handled things don't think they have the information that sort of stuff so that would be an interesting if I don't know if you'll run across that, but just to flag that for you 
It's come up a little bit definitely in some of the the interviews we've done and I think that's actually a really good segue into. of the follow-up that I had and then also kind of the last structured question that we have and I want to make sure we have enough time to cover this because I think it's gonna be very much in your guys wheelhouse but we're gonna kind of shift over into management and policy responses to the environment now, so switching off of impacts of offshore wind and talking more about you know, the control side and when we talk about management, we're talking federal state local and then also the influence of players like yourselves trade organizations ngos Etc. um So my my direct follow-up question to what you guys are kind of talking about is when we talk about, you know, communication battling dis and misinformation and sort of this battle for public perception and how this issue is going to be framed. specifically in Louisiana who's Responsibility should that be and then second if you all were Kings for a day and you could work out any sort of management or policy infrastructure you want to you know? Enhance the positive benefits that we've talked about today and maybe mitigate some of the the challenges and and drawbacks that we've talked about. What would you do? 
As far as who should be in charge, uh-huh. That's a hard one. Um, I would very much like to believe that developers are going to be very honest with the community and they're gonna come in and they're gonna tell the truth about all of the things that are going to be happening. In a perfect world people would believe them I think the circles back to the carbon capture example specifically in my community. There was an injection. Well that was proposed that the organization that proposed it came out and did essentially a PR campaign about carbon capture and that didn't go over well with the people that lived here. They felt like they were being bought and that they had wool being pulled over their eyes because it was a lot of just the positives. Um, so who should be responsible for this education? I don't know. My community organizer side of me is like Community organization should have those relationships with the developers. And then those trusted sources should go out into the community and relay that information. ideally but we're kind of seeing like Jenny said don't do it the way that they did it that wasn't effective. So that's a tough one. My answer is ideally Community organizations that have a relationship with the developers and the people that are pushing to get this forward. 
So the question was who should be in charge of community outreach? 
I think it's it's a two-part question one is in this ongoing battle about the public perception how offshore winds going to be framed who's responsibility. Is it to kind of get the word out? 
Mm-hmm. Okay, I gotcha. 
And then second of all looking Beyond sort of the communication or maybe even including the communication aspect. If you guys could Implement any sort of policy or management mechanism right now that would you know enhance some of the things that you guys care about and maybe mitigate some of the negative benefits. What would the negative impacts? What would those be? 
Have a question prompt maybe for the Louisiana team what state agencies? Should be should be managing, you know responsible, right? What state agencies should be responsible for? The environmental consequences what state agencies should be responsible for? Outreach If they're doing the leasing, I will say Outreach across the board. has to be a shared responsibility you can't Pin it on one group. What we've seen is that before something is least. Before there is a lease area. We often provide the role of Outreach in those adjacent. In those adjacent States or areas? Because communities have questions and they're not going to go to bohem. They're not going to go to the federal government. That's just You know not going to be their first stop and so before there is a leaseholder you have a lot of questions a lot of uncertainty people can start spinning stories about what it's going to look like feel like Etc and you have nothing concrete to tell them. Um, so that's where groups like ours can be extremely helpful. Even if we have to say, well we don't have those details yet. We can at least say, you know, well a properly cited Wind Farm is going to be net a net positive for the environment and here are the steps 
what? 
that boem takes to ensure protection for marine mammals and protection of Species things that I think Louisiana is trying to figure out how to to do something akin to that from the state level. And so you've got groups like ours on the front end once there's a developer. I think it is firmly in their Court. to take on the vast majority of the community engagement that developer has a vested financial interest in ensuring that the community understands what's going on at the same time because the developer has a vested financial interest. They do need other groups again, like the like the Coalition or engos other groups who can also backup those claims and say Yes, here are you know, here's the scientific evidence for XYZ or yes here examples from other places. So again, I think it's still shared but that that the responsibility more falls on the developer once there's a project in place. 
And those ngos work. 
or at least 
check and a balance right referring back to that carbon capture? So the carbon capture group that came in. The organization was doing that came in and said these are all of the good things when the community didn't They had that gut instinct of like they didn't trust this right they reached out to the engos and said hey, you guys are always loud. What do you know about this? This is happening in my community. And because those engos had continually shown up in this community number one. They knew them to be a trusted source of information. They weren't just brand new people that came into that Community. It worked as that kind of check and balance on somebody who was coming in and trying to develop this project here. So it would be good for the developer to bring in those engios early and address those complaints. So when the community does go to that trusted organization that they have. They can say hey, you know what? Yeah, we sign off on this kind of like katharine's point, you know, it does need to come from the developer. But because they have that financial interest there needs to be a secondary sort of approval layer for the communities to get behind it. And that's what we've seen be effective or you know be effective and advocating for Community interest and in theory could be effective for development developers interest as well. If they got on board early enough and addressed whatever concerns there were. 
Yeah, I think I think on the question of who should be in charge of Outreach. I I think I follow along the lines of Katharine which is like if you're the one who's supposed to make money off of this like you should be the one who's making sure that that's possible. however, you know I've been I've honestly been thinking about the like if you could Implement one policy like what would it be? I will tell you that my view on this is very colored by kind of a background of you know environmental law but Particularly particularly with like state waters and even certain like Federal things. I honestly just wish that like people would enforce the laws already on the books. That's a huge problem in Louisiana is you know, if you have a well that's contaminating land No One's Gonna care unless the state does something about it. And so Louisiana has a really big problem with actually enforcing the laws that it has on the books, which I think is probably my biggest concern down the line which is, you know, doesn't matter if you fight for a bunch of policy, if no one's making sure it's there at the end of the day. 
Jenny I think of the word I'm sure you've told me it the agreement that a certain percentage of the labor needs to come from Louisiana citizens. I would love to see those policies implemented just across board. I think it would do wonders to get Louisiana citizens on board with this in some of the preliminary conversations that I have had with people that know a little bit about wind emphasis on a little bit they think often when they hear of organizations like orstead or these companies that are coming from Europe coming to do investment and development here. They think they're bringing a lot of outside labor and to do this work and I think having those agreements in place would be very very helpful. I would love to see that just to reinvest back into these communities in the first place. 
local content requirements 
Local content requirements for some reason my brain keeps thinking that's Community benefit agreements and I know it's not but they get mixed up in my head. 
Well, you kind of reach the bottom of our there any last you know, and the last minute while you're king and the last thoughts or not them all. Okay, get back to will for any of final pieces. He's missing or close it up for us. 
Not on my end. 
I'll let y'all know if I think of anything certainly. 
Cool. Yeah, I I don't have any low-hanging fruit or loose threads in my map. It's very pretty map and it's always it's so fascinating to me how different these always end up playing out. 
Do we get to see our own map? 
I can show you guys down the road. 
Okay. 
I can show you you want. A lot of it needs to be translated because it goes through my my like mapping shorthand. Yes. but 
