think about offshore wind relative to your area of expertise. What are some of the benefits or drawbacks to having that as part of the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem that might be changed as a result of wind. 
Yeah. I guess. So having a source of clean energy is probably like the biggest benefit. I also just you know that. Oil industry jobs have like a lot of people have been laid off here in the golf. Never Last handle of years and so like having a new industry coming in. It's a benefit or hopefully supply chain jobs manufacturing jobs and all people everyone working in the industry. And yeah, so I think that and also just like not having hopefully if we can transition our offshore energy portfolio to offer wind instead of investing in new offshore drilling in the future that would mean Better for you know not having oil spills, which is better for wildlife and fisheries and all that as well. 
That makes sense trying to break this into chunks. Now. I'm going to ask you about mechanisms of the things you just talked about. So let's get into the jobs thing first. How do you see that playing out? 
Yeah, I think there's a lot of potential for jobs with the wind industry coming into the Gulf of Mexico. I think already even before we have offshore when like turbines in the Gulf of Mexico. There's like shipbuilding but you know, we're already building some ships on the Gulf Coast for the wind industry and we have a lot of expertise with working offshore. So I think that has already there's already potential there and then hopefully like we're gonna need a lot more Manufacturing in order to make the offer when industry happen in the US so Hopefully increasing that domestic supply chain and like a regional supply chain for the Gulf of Mexico would be great. And then on top of that the actual wind actual like construction jobs and like servicing turbine jobs into the future too, but definitely there would be a lot of potential for construction jobs, especially in the beginning. 
yeah, it makes sense things do change over time. So you mentioned the oil spills and I guess decrease of potential harms from oil and natural gas. Could you get into that a little bit more and how you see that one playing out? 
Yeah, yes. I think like the offshore drilling has been. Pretty bad for a lot of wildlife in the Gulf of Mexico, especially of course, we have the Deepwater Horizon oil spill which was huge but even just like the day-to-day like there's oils. There's you know, smaller oil spills, basically every day and then and I guess I just see potential with a new industry of like building it better from the beginning with more Environmental Protections and more worker protections too, like working off shores very dangerous job right now, so, you know, I hope All of that, you know, if we had fewer explosions and fires offshore that would be better for workers. And for Animals also like for I guess whales specifically that you know, the Deepwater Horizon spelling Dolphins was like really bad for them. There's a of course, you know will concerned. Can you continue to be an issue with like offshore drilling? And so I think there's still some of that you know that we need to be concerned with noise and with just having you know vessels in the water that could hit whales and and Sea turtles, but yeah, I'm hoping with this industry will have fewer of those concerns. But also that like will put more, you know, protections and restrictions on it from earlier on. 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. across the board You started with clean energy. So I'm gonna go back to that. I know that's big and Broad and potentially Global thinking about just the gulf or just where the wind is going in. How do you see? The ecosystem changing as a result of clean energy. Or slowing climate change, I guess. 
Yeah. I mean, I think we know need need a lot more clean energy than we have and we also need I mean, I think people liked to think that like oil and natural gas or like the most reliable energy sources, but like I mean we've seen you know, like in Texas last year with like the grid failing and stuff and that it was that was not the case. And so I think like having a variety of energy sources is our best bet and when it comes to like reliability and And National Security and things like that having something. like Regional you know like in the Gulf Coast we have a lot of refineries and stuff like that. And so like if we can move away from meeting that You know that additional pollution too like climate change pollution and also just like air quality issues for communities here anything that will be like a long term thing because of course we have like an increased, you know energy demand now, but like we need to start making progress, you know towards those towards clean energy goals and just like in even even the like in the Gulf people are in our always prioritizing maybe clean energy goals like it at the state government level, but I mean, I don't know. I think it's just gonna be the reality of the future. And so the more we can especially projects like offshore wind projects. Are you huge and they're very long term it takes years and years to get things permitted and built and so like it's gonna be a very long time before, you know, that any of that energy is even on the grid. Down here. So it's like, you know, I'd think we need to start moving now to see any changes I guess and I guess this makes me think of something that I I don't know a whole lot about but something that I've have heard down here is like just the idea that like industry might be the ones who were like using the offshore wind energy. Like they're the ones who are gonna get it before like it'll go to yeah, like regular rate payers. And so I don't know that's just something. Yeah that I heard a bit about and kind of wonder how that's gonna shake out. I think that's like a bit of a, you know concern even though of course like that can be good because industry also like manufacturing can use can create a lot of you know, we'll use a lot of 
right 
power too. So like it's not bad for them to have clean power but It would also, you know like to see those benefits like go to everyone. 
Yeah, that's interesting. Is that rumor kind of true across the board because I know Louisiana Texas are really different in there. appeal to Offshore wind 
Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I don't know Texas it Texas is strange because they have so much onshore wind but like don't have the interest or political will for offshore wind right now at all. And but yeah, I think that a lot of the like Industrial uses of like energy right now in Louisiana are like looking at looking. I don't know for options to kind of like green what they're doing like with carbon storage. Like that's another thing they're trying to do offshore or hydrogen and try. Yeah, so I think I I am guessing that they're also hoping to get like a good price on wind energy is like there, you know made motivation. 
That would be nice. 
Yeah. 
Thinking about the particular towns that might be benefiting through this you mentioned that some folks in oil and natural gas had been laid off and the long time frame to potentially hiring them. I guess I'm just curious if it's a the same people and B if they're gonna need some sort of transition program to get them from one to the other. 
Yeah. I mean, I think it's is there's gonna be some jobs that are transferable. Um, probably with some training. Like I you know a lot of cases there's like a general offshore worker like certification you need and so I don't know how different those will be at this point. I think a lot of that stuff's just like not figured out and then there'll be some jobs. You know that like maybe if you're an electrician And you know, well, you could either 
right 
do similar things for wind. I think like the reality is that a lot of the jobs are not good be it's not going to be like easy to just transition people. justly to like, you know from from oil to clean energy and a lot of cases and so like I think we ideally would be thinking of like other mechanisms for supporting those people who lose jobs with like paying them paying for job retraining whether it's in a renewable energy, you know or not. If something else makes more sense, you know for them or for their their career path or their age and their interests but are having like support. For them in the meantime, or if you get laid off have you know not being without any sort of like support, you know from the government or from those companies ideally, but yeah, it's like I love to you know be able to transition everybody but I think like the reality is it's not going to be as like straightforward as we would hope. 
yeah. Yeah, I was thinking that then you mentioned the time Horizon and I'm like wait. Does that even line up if you were looking? 
right 
Many years down the line. You started down this road, but thinking kind of outside of your area of expertise. Now, what are some things that might change that? Well isn't your area of expertise that sort of you've heard in the community? 
Yeah. I think there's still like kind of remains to be seen like how people are gonna react after wind down here. You know, we've seen definitely like on the East Coast like some very like Focus efforts, you know in communities to be like anti offshore win. I mean those efforts are typically funded by like anti-climate change groups and there's just like a big study about that recently about how much of that is coming from like like brother funded organizations specifically and so A lot of things that they're working all over but it ends up looking like kind of organic, you know, like Community lead opposition and I think they're you know, they're tapping into real fears that people have about their properties or their views and stuff like that. So right now I feel like in the Gulf like we're used to seeing industrialization of our ocean like we're used to seeing rigs offshore where you know, and like I think people see that more as like they see the benefits of jobs and energy then people on other coast maybe because they don't have that already. So I think I guess like I'm curious to see how that plays out here. Like it's been unfortunate. Like I said in Texas to see that like there hasn't been more interest and not sure when because I'm sure they could you know do it well and do it faster than some other places too if they like have the interest so I'm just kind of curious to see in Louisiana how that shakes out. I guess another thing too with we have some like the governor well our like our governor that was just voted out like, you know had introspecially in like state water projects and they in Louisiana just approved a couple of state water projects and But there's like even the like that's there's a lot of concern from the environmental groups for those and I think those are potentially gonna, you know people they're gonna be closer people are gonna be see them. They're gonna be the way more and so like I am worried that that's if those happen first which like they're on track to potentially happen first that that'll like cause More concerns or you know, make things harder for the bigger Federal projects that will actually be like way further out and probably wouldn't actually bother anybody once they were built. 
yeah, that's a good point. I didn't realize those were ahead of schedule. the larger wind concerns, I guess you mentioned that the big 
Yeah. 
Koch brother type things are tapping into some real fears. What are some of those real fears that you've heard locally? 
Yeah. I mean, I think there's some people like there I think bird concerns are real. You know, this is like a this is a really important area for migratory birds and store birds and so like I think we have some we have more bird concerns than in some other places around the country too. And so I think that's that's real that's not something that they usually talk about I guess in other places, but I guess like, you know the people talk about whales a lot in other places that could come up maybe we don't have like the same. Whales especially where they'd be building these projects like the same endangered will concerns, but it's possible. And I think that comes from like, you know legitimate place that people like want, you know, they like the ocean and they like the ocean animals and stuff. So I think that's you know, like it's valid even if people are like unfortunately getting fed misinformation about like the actual risk of these projects, you know to whales there is some risk and I think 
What? 
that like that Nuance has really hard to communicate, you know to the to the public and and I think people who are yeah like concerned about new things. I mean, I think also like Like the reality is we all we need energy like we all need energy and so it has to be built somewhere and but communities especially on like in the Northeast who have like not had to look at any of that energy before. like I understand now wanting to like if you have a choice I get it, you know, but the reality is like we need it 
What? 
somewhere. So I think like there could be you know some of that but like I said, we already have a lot more. You look around everywhere here and it's like, you know refineries and Rigs and everything. So hopefully there's like less of 
this 
that. Yes, I think those lyrics those are legitimate because people are worried about like their property values even though like it doesn't seem to be a lot of evidence. Like there's also just paper about that recently that like property values you around and I think onshore when do dip like for a couple years, but then like there's no long-term effect and 
interesting 
So like I think yeah, I think like that. It's like it makes sense. You know, people are worried if they own homes and stuff like that, too, but I think it the the reality of the risk is like overblown, you know. 
yeah, so that yeah the magnitude of the risk like it's there but How do we scale it? 
Yeah, yeah. 
That makes sense. All right, my last question thinking about all the very many topics we've touched on thus far and what management actions might be able to affect those relationships For Better or For Worse and my management. I don't just mean State I mean like Could be the permitting process the broader policy. 
Yeah, I mean I think through. like the permitting of these projects definitely like the environmental concerns, I think can be handled, you know pretty well pretty well and I think like environment like expert environmental people are like mostly have been pretty satisfied with how that's gone, like in other projects and other places in the country and and yeah, I think just like the reality of the Gulf of Mexico is like we kind of we already have so much here. We already have so many like kind of problems. It's such like a disturbed ecosystem already that like I don't know maybe that makes it easier to get you know to just keep building more stuff kind of and so 
Yeah. 
yeah, but I think that there's definitely you know, just like the precious process. We already have with you know, Nebo permitting that is like has been good about yeah dealing with like a special at the construction level. I guess. I'll say like with can permits for construction of offer wind like dealing with with noise concerns and a little bit with with vessel vessel speed and like vessel strikes like 
right 
that I think has been Been good. I guess the thing that I haven't mentioned is like concern from Fishers and so like people who are fishing that There's I'm five. There's probably some you know management policies. There can be helpful there. But that yeah, I don't know. I think that one that one can be hard to but hopefully I also I guess I think that'd be less of an issue in the Gulf of Mexico too. Even though we have a lot of fishing just because yeah, we have like Rigs and stuff already. 
Yeah, that makes sense. What about the jobs and economic side of things. Do you think management can Play a role there and how it's laid out. 
Um Yeah, I mean I think. I guess I don't think about like I don't know management or like policy abroadly, but I don't know things. I can incentivize. like Manufacturing 
mmm 
local manufacturing and ideally, you know for my perspective like with good jobs like creating actually good jobs. Those things like I think there are. I mean, there's stuff that. I guess with the permitting to like now like requiring project labor agreements for construction. Like that is something that's art that's happening. And I think that's that's really good. So continuing things like that. Um, I mean, that's something that like could the government could be doing for offshore drilling projects the way it is for offshore wind, but it's not and so that's something I've heard down here that like, hey if you're doing it for there, why not start doing it for the oil industry projects, too? 
interesting 
You know. It's like that that would be good. So that's that's something that I think has been successful other places too. And so hopefully that continues 
That's awesome. Well, that is all of my questions. Is there anything else rattling around in your head that we kind of briefly touched on or not at all that you'd like to get out there? 
I guess I guess I'm I'm like concerned about like, you know, having a new governor and is not like going as supportive of offshore win what that's gonna do to the industry and Yeah, just because it is such a long process. You know, I think it just gives it gives like people who are opposed years to come up with new ways to slow it down, too. so I don't know. We'll see what happens I guess with that and then I'm interested to see I mentioned hydrogen a little bit but I'm interested to see if that's 
right 
something that like they start trying to use win for down here. 
interesting Well, did you have any clarifications? 
I don't have any clarifications, but I have one. question that I like to use as a follow-up when we get someone like yourself who has kind of the steps of knowledge both on that the biology and then also the social and political side of things and I think you've done a really good job melding like the sociocultural effects and and maybe some of the physical and chemical elements of the energy generation when you talk about the biological or physical effects of offshore winds what differences do you see between the actual turbines themselves and the effect that they'll have on the environment and the existing oil and natural gas infrastructure. 
Yeah. I guess like with the turbizers just gonna be of them like even more we have a lot of rigs but there's gonna be even more turbines, you know, if we build these big projects they but I think so that you know can potentially be I think more of an issue for people who are trying to fish, you know, maybe for navigation, but We also but one of the benefits with differences in infrastructure is not having. I mean we'll have cables and that's where thing but not having all the pipelines which are like all over the Gulf of Mexico right now which make and they also like make a mess, you know, they get like moved during storms. They hit things they make it like hard for people to navigate like when they're like fishing or you know, just in boats in general and so and they also can I leak and pollute so Yeah, I think it'll be different. but yeah, there's gonna be and there's gonna be a lot of tournaments and one of the things people talk about all the time is how much they like fishing off rigs down here off the offshore drilling rigs because they do like fish aggregate around them, you know, all sorts of stuff grows on them. And so like I imagine we'll have lots of lots more of those opportunities too, if you know and people should like the way it's been done other places people should be able to still fish near them. Hopefully, I'll actually like just recreational Fisher. So like that would be a benefit to some people And yeah, I mean offshore drilling is moving further offshore now too. It's moving into deeper waters, but and I have to look at the maps and the depths again too, but I think like the big project except for the state water ones will be at least like further offshore than some of some of the rigs because we have a lot of oil rights in like shallow water, too. 
Awesome. Yeah, that was the only the only follow-up I had. So Amy unless that's buried anything in your head or if that. That planted any seats for you. 
I don't know just sort of like I guess a random thought like just thinking about the concerns for offshore wind and the Northeast like one of the big things people are worried about is that like the with just that that all the turbines will change, you know, how the water movements which they will of course will that will that have a difference for zoplankton, you know, will that have it like a go up the food chain, but right now like we don't know actually if it's gonna be no change a positive change or a negative change and so, you know, I don't know like I personally don't really know what to make of that at this point. We just don't have enough information, but we will be interesting to see once projects go in on the East Coast if we learn more about that and if that like, you know gives us more information down here for better for worse. I mean more information is good, but I don't know if it's gonna be good good news or bad news. 
Right, right. awesome Well, that was very comprehensive my the models very full over here. I think I think this activity goes to show that you're very qualified here Physicians are because you have a very universal view of how these systems may play out. 
