Perhaps the most open. All right, recording but perhaps the most open-ended when you think about the ecosystem Services provided by the gulf, so the broad golf ecosystem. What do you think might change as a result of offshore wind development? And this is wearing your expertise hat that you just so lovely described to me. 
Okay, so I think a good place to start is to think about what the physical infrastructure of offshore wind. Might do so some of the things. that we know is that we are talking about very large ships transporting components of offshore wind turbines to the middle of the ocean. And installing them there so some of the impacts to that might be disturbing water bottoms for for their Construction. once their operational you could probably anticipate that there might be some or many depending on which models sort of pan out Wildlife strikes or displacement from those offshore wind turbines. I think with the Uh, the chemicals that go into painting and lubricating them that you could anticipate some leakage that could affect water quality. and I think would observe accidents from people being transported to or working on these things particularly if there's adverse weather, but we've observed this with the with oil and gas infrastructure having not a very good safety record when it comes to servicing constructing pipelines, I think. that during extreme storms like hurricanes. You could see offshore wind turbines. Collapse or fall down and so you would have that that infrastructure. Either needing to be cleaned up or rebuilt. Based upon what we know with with oil and gas rigs. I believe that you would see offshore wind platforms function as aggregators for fish species. So I think that you would see them sort of congregating around them potentially. Depending on how you interpret this that they might function as artificial Reef structure off bottom structure. With the increased boat traffic. I think that you will see increased air pollution. Depending on what types of fuels are used, but certainly getting the ones that we have now, you could potentially see boat strikes related to marine mammals or or other species that they're in the water. when it comes to constructing transmission cables You could see. Some potential Wetlands impacts to depending on where the cables come on Shore and whether or not they're using existing. Thoroughfares now I don't know if there are things that could be done to mitigate that one of the things that we know with oil and gas pipelines is that there wasn't much backfilling done when it comes to the ground that was Disturbed in wetlands. And so you've seen significant Wetland loss from Similar types of infrastructure from from oil and gas pipelines though. I don't expect that. We would see it on the same level because of the damage that's already been done. And because it's my understanding that the offshore wind transmission lines can be smaller or less impactful than Pipelines. though I'm not a hundred percent sure that that's true. That's just what I've heard. um I think that. You will see increased. Jobs in the region. I think the Gulf of Mexico region already has some manufacturing infrastructure. We know for sure that One of the facilities in Houma has built. A parts for the the Block Island wind farm. And so there's already a Workforce and some manufacturing that supports the offshore wind industry that already exists that I think would see increased business and I also think that there will be new businesses that that pop up. To support the industry, so I would imagine that you would see. increased Capital flow to the region I think it is yet to be determined how much of that will be locally owned or controlled by multinational corporations. I think a lot of the quality of the jobs and who gets them is yet to be determined based upon the policy guardrails that are put into place if they're if they're if there aren't things done by public service commissions or the federal government to put conditions on tax credit money or lease requirements if they are in federal waters that require things like project labor agreements or Community benefit agreements. It's very likely that the large companies who are building offshore wind turbines and accompanying infrastructure will use whatever is probably the cheapest source of Labor or material for those projects. so when it also when we think about economic impacts I mentioned. Fisheries potentially being able to use offshore wind turbines as aggregators, but I also think for the shrimp industry other sort of net-based. A Fisher folk that you will see displacement of the the fisherman who will most likely not be able to you use it either through sort of distance requirements from staying away from the rig or just the practicalities of net entanglements. We have seen. Universities in the region who have started to create programs for job training related to the offshore wind industry. So I think that you will see more students pursuing that and getting trained with that as part of a career path and potentially population inflow for people who are seeking to get the educational credentials or perhaps people who are just attracted to the new industry in general and wish to be trained on the job. 
That was a great. 
Yeah, I'm gonna pause for there and see if Ashley has anything to say come up with with anything else. I might add on their. at the end 
I mean Kendall. You left everything. on the field 
Okay, but I also. 
as did the Detroit Lions 
I also thought of some other impacts, which is that whenever you have new infrastructure being built. There are people who are going to be in favor of it or opposed to it and it it will definitely be the case that some people will be opposed to it and depending on the governance and permitting process that is into place. We will see who is upset about that. So and the West Coast Northwest and Northeast indigenous tribes who were not consulted felt left out of the process and I think it's fair to say that they have been upset about the lack of consultation on the board of outright opposing new offshore wind development and causing for a moratorium. um another some other impacts that I don't think that I mentioned for is that offshore when has the potential? To displace a new or existing oil and gas infrastructure either by fulfilling that demand or physically sort of competing for the space because if you have offshore when that is built and a transmission line on the ground can't exactly run a pipeline through that or if there's an offshore wind platform in the water that's a place that you can't build an oil and gas and drilling rig. So eventually I think that you can see the displacement of oil and gas infrastructure However, we have also seen that the industry the industrial industry is excited about or seems to be excited about offshore when power purchasing agreements. So as part of either getting tax credits or being a part of climate action plans industrial decarbonization is a big priority in the Gulf of Mexico particularly in Louisiana, where about 70% of its energy demand comes from the industrial sector and Um, that number is only predicted I believe to to rise as we look at electrification as we look at new industries that are looking to relocate to the region through either the hydrogen or ammonia industry or mineral processing. So offshore wind could be used to directly Power Industrial facilities. Some of these industrial facilities are things that are toxic or poisonous. Otherwise Beyond just their energy usage that people don't want so you could see toxic infrastructure essentially given an extended lifetime through its connection to Offshore wind that's a little bit of speculation, but I believe that the desire to quote unquote green the industrial sector could To create the an extended lifespan for infrastructure that communities would otherwise want to see retired or the perception that these facilities are cleaner than they actually are if they're being used in conjunction with offshore wind. The flip side of that is if a lot of offshore wind is built and there's a lot of capacity then you could see even ever increased presence from the green hydrogen industry in the Gulf Coast. 
nice Ashley I'll hand it over to you, but I'm gonna ask question two so you can expand upon some things and I see Willem dropped some You have edit access to the question. So if you could drop number two in there as well number two is to talk about the the mechanisms and Kendall just gave really good example of this happens. Then this happens then that happens the mechanisms by which some of these changes are happening. If you could please expand on some of the things that Kendall talked about or a new effect of your own and talk about those chain of effects 
so you guys keep I keep getting you guys keep dropping out. so I'm trying to follow like sorry internet. 
Oh, yeah, it happens. Feel free to drop things in the chat 
Yeah. 
too. If that would be more helpful and Kendall you dropped on me a little bit too. So whatever works best. We'll be flexible. 
Okay. Okay, so Kendall covered everything for your first question And I agree with them on everything something that I have just been thinking about. And don't have Clarity on because I've just been thinking about it. is The combination of carbon capture storage and offshore wind and Southwest Louisiana off the off the code in Gulf Waters. a night again. I've just been thinking about it, but it does seem to me to be a bit. Concerned like it gives me pause. Let me put it that way. um specific parts of offshore wind construction and operation processes are important to you and how they really is it so we have a mountain of pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico that are not necessarily conducive to Anything good? and and and are probably as a non-scientist and not as smart as Kendall probably would cause some some issues and problems for transmission lines to be run from from from offshore wind and so like mitigating that in order to have a good infrastructure for offshore wind. I I wonder and I probably think. you know the people that that live off of the Gulf Coast and what it provides via Fisheries would also have some concerns about that. Like, how are we going? How are we literally going to clean up the floor of the Gulf of Mexico? in order to have new transmission lines for offshore wind without disrupting the way of life. of people who whose livelihood and and and whose children's livelihood likely will be built off of those walks. something that I have heard and that I also think you know, just me, you know concerns me. um Also, this is a stupid question. But I'm gonna ask it like what like people are worried about the birds. Like how come we can't just paint the things like with stripes? So the birds can see them. And not hit the turbines like that's this is just a nascent question. But I think it's a question that other people would ask, right. um 
Yeah for sure. I know in places they have painted them camouflaged or not camouflage. There are research questions. So I guess I'll put that out there as unknown effects on birds and can we mitigate? Those hold that thought for question number four? My I wanted to go back to the carbon capture and sequestration comment. You had said you had concerns and I just wanted to delve into that a little about what those concerns are and this is actually new to us. So if you want to delve into the weeds a bit, that would be most helpful. 
Sure. I don't know how far I can get into the weeds with you on it because I've just started thinking about this today. Um, but they're the off the Southwest coast. There are many class five permits being Issued to do tests for these injection Wells which leads? A reasonable mind to think that they would apply for class six these class. Louisiana has recently been given Primacy over Classics in just injection Wells, which means that EPA isn't holding those purse strings anymore if you will. The recently appointed head of the Department of Natural Resources is the former president of the Louisiana Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association. That is the department that would be issuing these Classics permits. And now we have Classics permits or class five. being asked for in the same region that these offshore wind leases are being applied for and given. um This is a see carbon capture sequestration is an unproven science. It's never done what it's never performed to the capacity that it is complete, you know purported to to perform. And there was a major disaster in sitarsha Mississippi with a pipeline that burst an emergency vehicles weren't able to. Show up and respond. because they wouldn't run because their combustible engines couldn't Get enough oxygen to run and like several people were taken to the hospital. Now. This is I one person going to the hospital is a disaster to me five. People is a big disaster to me. um now we're doing the now they're testing underneath the Gulf of Mexico right off of camera Parish in Southwest, Louisiana, or applying for permits to What is that going to do to our Fisheries? It should like so it's size. It's seismic testing right? It's not. These are things that these are things that concern me. I'm not a scientist. I'm not really good about talking about these things. But if it concerns me, I'm sure that it. I'm positive that it concerns people whose livelihood depends on Fisheries in the in the Gulf of Mexico off of Cameron and in South Southwest, Louisiana on the whole 
Yeah, that makes sense. Thanks that added a lot more details 
Yep. 
to our little conceptual model. 
but just just expand upon that some of the other concerns about carbon capture and storage utilization is that it requires a new pipeline So then we're talking about further networks. Wetlands erosion, which is sort of, you know, the most critical line of defense against major hurricanes the other major concern with carbon capture and storage in the Gulf of Mexico region. Is that every sort of Whole or borehole you have and the geological structure is a chance for leakage. And so because of all the existing oil and gas well as it have already been drilled. It makes a lot more risky to store carbon in the Gulf of Mexico region compared to other places. 
Okay. Thank you. Ashley sort of teed me out really well for a question number three, which is what have you heard. So thinking outside of your area of expertise what other effects that you've heard might be impacted positively or negatively by offshore wind Development and Construction. So other rumors that we haven't already talked about. 
Oh, yeah, and I've actually I was wondering if I could go back and answer some parts of question two. 
Yeah. 
I was sitting there thinking about a bit longer and I think you know a lot of the a lot of the concerns we enumerated in the first question. We're about the direct impacts from offshore when but I think as somebody who's concerned with sort of overall energy policy in the climate is that I'm worried about also worried about offshore wind not coming to the Gulf of Mexico region and so off the coast of Southeast Louisiana as my colleague mentioned, there are a number of pipelines and other abandoned infrastructure that are blocking the construction of offshore wind. So when the Bureau of ocean Energy Management put out their their research related to where they were going to cite wind energy areas. They should they showed that there is There was a lot of Industry interest industry. in the area is off the coast of southeast him and those areas did not end up in the wind energy areas final wind energy areas and consideration for Leasing and at a public meeting. The the regional director of the Gulf of Mexico at bohem was asked whether or not conflicts with pipelines in existing infrastructure, where a factor in that and he said that they were so one. We have a lot of remediation to do a lot of I'm concerned that there's a there seems to be a perception right now that offshore wind could and when I talk to people in the Gulf of Mexico that offshore wind could Target poor communities, but what I've pointed out is that when you look at where offshore wind is actually being developed in places like the Northeast it's going to near vacation areas off the coast of Long Island and Rhode Island and and Martha's Vineyard. And so what's happening in my eyes is that wealthier parts of the of the country are being able or being able to you move quickly and take advantage of cleaner energy while the Gulf of Mexico region is still stuck with extremely dirty fossil fuel based industry that's causing a lot of problems like environmental racism and things like that. So, one of the things that I think needs to happen. to create enthusiasm and permanent, you know couldn't constituencies that are advocating for responsible offshore wind development in the Gulf of Mexico is quality construction and quality jobs that go along with that. So my colleague had mentioned painting of the turbines but using quality materials, it doesn't break down over time. I have worked with some people it toughs who are advocating for gravity-based foundations, which they say will overall create more jobs with less environmental impact. There's research to read to follow up to follow up on that. So the type of construction we have matters the type of jobs that we have matters and and the Northeast in Project labor agreements that guarantee, you know Union they at least good effort. Or something that the Gulf of Mexico region really needs because the offshore oil and gas industry is almost entirely non-union in the Gulf of Mexico and there's a perception correctly so that a lot of the jobs go to Outsiders and so that the poor black and brown residents don't benefit from energy projects. And so there's less of there's a there's a real desire especially by people who are going to be impacted by pollution to fight these projects. And so I don't think that if you're getting Community buy-in you could see Community opposition both real and astroturfed that would prevent the the climate benefits of transitioning to Offshore when and just the other last thing related to construction that I'm concerned about is the financing. So with Market based with a market-based approach to Offshore language is what I think that we have now where mostly we're looking for for-profit entities to do the development. What we've seen is that when the profit margins are impacted by supply chain bottlenecks or increased interest rates. There's a desire to read negotiate the contracts or potentially I think what we need is a different approach that is more focused on more more than profit and perhaps public Enterprises that can respond to things like interest rates and supply chain disruptions not by canceling projects, but by investing more public money into it and if if a public entities doing that then there are profits they can be reinvested back into public projects potentially stuff. Like, you know, the remediation that we were talking about or more robust Community benefit agreements or other things that put the money back into community and you've seen this sort of all over Europe when you see public developers doing the development Community ownership of the developments themselves in many cases and I and you know, Me this has for if there's many reasons probably for this but that could potentially be one of the reasons that the European offshore wind industry is so far ahead of where the United States offshore industry is right now. 
That makes a lot of sense. 
yeah, and I agree with everything 
Ashley 
Kendall said 110% I would only add that I would really like to see. investments in Community and Technical colleges Where offshore wind is being developed or planned to be developed so that a transition could be a little little more it's not going to be seamless but a little more seamless and all and and I think that also would go a long way to garnering public trust in that. We're not We're not gonna lose our livelihood. We're not going to lose our ability to sustain our families because oil and gas is scaling back and wind is is ramping up. um and and just because it would be necessary if you want to if you want to invest in the workforce in Louisiana and not elsewhere then that's the way that we need to be able to do that. So That's all. 
Yeah, that's a big one. 
Um, yeah, I know that we are starting to see some of these programs like with Uno but they've partnered with Entergy on that which is the large industrial utility. And another thing that I did not mention and question one about the the ecosystem is that we would late likely see in potentially increased rates for utility customers is offshore. When is large Capital intensive projects in New York. We saw record lease sales and from you know, more expensive than what we saw with with oil and gas leases. And when I asked somebody in the industry why this was they pointed to the renewable portfolio standards that exist in the Northeast where there's a lot of incentive to be able to purchase, you know, To develop offshore wind is renewable energy because there is such a market for it because utilities are essentially mandated to buy it. Now. They also know that these costs can more or less be passed on to Consumers. And so the Gulf of Mexico region, especially Louisiana has some of the most energy burden customers in the in the entire country, which would lead me into question two, which is That if one of the things that I'm concerned about is that public service commissions and other utility Regulators are making sure that costs are not passed on to the poorest residence one because I think it's inequitable and number two because I think it could potentially negatively polarized people towards towards the technology. 
Yeah, that's definitely important. I think you guys went back to question one and two and maybe in the process answered my third one, but I just want to make sure before we move on number three was. Not wearing your hat of expertise. What have you heard about the potential effects? So what are the rumors in your community? So to speak if we haven't already discussed all of them? 
Yeah, so talking to Seafood Harvesters that I know on the coast. I am still hearing the misinformation about whales and and Noise. So this is a theory that's been thoroughly debunked by now including by people at Noah, I believe so thank you for that that whales are impacted by offshore wind turbines. And so I've heard that I've heard other concerns from from Seafood Harvesters that that they won't be allowed to fish around the turbines. I've heard from folks in environmental justice communities that once the turbines have reached the end of their lifespan after 20 30 years or more that the waste will be dumped in their communities because that's what essentially happened with the oil and gas industry. So that and I think more or less everything else has sort of, you know been covered, you know concerned about utility rates going up concerns jobs going to outside the community. 
All right, and thank you Ashley. I see your comment in the chat job loss fisheries and birds. Big categories but definitely things that we've heard. All right. So if that knocks out question three the last question Ashley LED with a really good example about the birds and can we paint the turbines to affect the effect to change the effects on birds potentially. So from your perspective what management actions in the broad sense of the word management would be able to affect some of the relationships that we had discussed already? And given that we discussed a lot. Maybe you don't have to run through everything but pick your favorite if there's policies you have in your head. 
so the first thing that I would say is interagency planning that looks at the Gulf of Mexico holistically so you have The Bureau of ocean Energy Management, you know looking at oil and gas development wind development carbon capture and storage in the ocean. You have the military uming large parts of the ocean which are more or less non-negotiable for for their training exercises. You have shipping lanes. You have fishermen. Seafood Harvesters, you have the nascent aquaculture industry with which ones portions of it. You have scuba divers and others who simply like to use the ocean to to admire it you have all of these different user groups who are frequently considered differently by different agencies, you know, so the department of interior the Department of Commerce And the Department of Defense and many others sort of all have a claim over the use of the Gulf of Mexico, but in my mind and I could be I could be wrong about this. Maybe this this is already happening. But if it is I haven't participated in it, but as sort of larger planning process that includes not just the agencies themselves, but stakeholder groups to sort of look at the multi uses and in the Gulf of Mexico and help determine a coherent policy that maximizes usage enjoyment preservation of natural ecosystem services and and all of that but particularly for the benefit of people because I think a lot of times, you know, poor people who live along the coast or often the least considered when it comes to the ocean 
I didn't hear the whole question all the way through because it keeps breaking up. But I will say this. I think that people. are tired of the Gulf of Mexico being a testing ground. And frustrated with that. And I think that there are real. justifiable fears about new a brand new industry coming to the Gulf of Mexico and affecting their way of life, right? Whether they're recreational user of the gulf on a boat or or is going scuba diving or they're making their living off of Fisheries. Um, I think and I don't know what the answer to that is. I don't know how to allay those fears, but I think that those are real fears and I think that they are relevant and justifiable fears of people that that live on the Gulf Coast and above the Gulf Coast. um of Louisiana and and Southeast the southeastern United States just in general and and I think that it would I mean I don't know what I I don't know what the answer is to that but I do think that it that question needs to be answered and I've lived here all my life and we keep getting we just keep getting. Dumped on you know, and that's what it feels like. And that's what it feels like to people on the ground. 
Yeah, I can see that. 
Let's try this. You know. 
Like we might not have a solution but at least acknowledge a history of being the guinea pig and go from there. 
absolutely, and not just the guinea 
Okay. 
pig. But also, I mean we have a corridor called cancer alley. I mean, that's what it's called. 
Yep. 
you know like it's not just the guinea pig. It's also the recipient of harm. 
yeah, I think I think that's all very well said Ashley and I think that sort of and you know, reminding ourselves of the bigger picture is really important here and I think some of the other policies that will help ensure that our Strict national standards put in place around the quality of construction and and the quality of the jobs right now. We have a lot of incentive based, you know sort of structure being like if if you do right you might get you know, so, you know, essentially 
What? 
credits. Towards your bid and things like that. I think some of these things should actually be mandated either by Congress or through rule making that we're using collectively bargained a labor. One of the things that we advocated for in our comment area over the Gulf of Mexico the first Gulf of Mexico The first Gulf of Mexico when we an environmental justice mitigation fund that mirrors the Fisheries mitigation fund. So for the Gulf of Mexico, they created a pot essentially of money that you know that you know that if again, it's still a sort of more like incentive based, you know, if you're gonna sort of like, you know, Create this that you're going to get on the money back. Although I guess, you know a tax credit and an expenditure or can be can be more or less the same thing. But we said, you know, not just for Fisheries. Um also for people who are going to be impacted by all of the things that I mentioned and question one including the direct impacts from the development of offshore wind. But as I also mentioned for the Gulf of Mexico to not be able to transition to Offshore wind is also a harm if you're dealing with oil and gas infrastructure that's littering your community needs to be cleaned up anyway, and the fact that that boem and Bessie Which are both under the department of interior have permitted the oil and gas infrastructure that is in the 
Okay. 
way. that they have not required the cleanup of abandoned infrastructure means that there has been a policy Choice made to more or less exclude Southeast Louisiana for the time being from the offshore wind build out which is why I think that there are should be an environmental justice fund that is accessible to communities Beyond those that are directly impacted by poor traffic or transmission lines or substations. I think that there are a lot of ways you know that that you could that you could structure this but I definitely think that there needs to be wealth shared with the people who not just have been impacted by offshore wind but have been impacted by offshore oil and gas because is that industry potentially starts to decline the money available for for cleanup and Remediation will be less and less as potentially as is their profits go down. so I think that is one thing and as I mentioned you're sort of teased out before. I think to to overcome volatile construction and energy markets. That the public sector needs to play larger role and the development itself. And so I think public Enterprises up and down the supply chain or going to be critical to getting to adjust energy transition in line with what the science is telling us for decoration targets. and I think that people being able to see and experience public benefits will only create a positive feed feedback loop that the generates, you know, sort of more demand or support for offshore wind. 
Awesome. I was just reading Ashley's comment codify that if it harms people they will be made whole that is big ask but not an unreasonable one. I know actual policymakers roll their eyes but makes a lot of sense. I like the way you've done the cost benefit, too of you know, there'll be some pluses and some minuses and you have to take into account all of the above. 
yeah, you know, I think there has been a lot of pushback over the years from Frontline communities about cost benefit analysis because it seems cold and that it doesn't Factor. It doesn't actually factor in all the cost and benefits to human beings sometimes but I think that's all so because we haven't done a good job of measuring those impacts to human health and to ecosystems and I think that if we ever actually did, you know a real accounting of the the cost and benefits of a lot of projects that environmental justice and Frontline communities would win every single time. But it's very hard a lot of times to get that full accounting because it requires a lot of times some very Advanced science that is costly and poor communities are up against it while the the energy companies that they're going against have all the funding in the war in the world to get the science that they need to prove their case. 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I shouldn't have said cost benefit analysis with a large capital letter as a sociologist. I get an arguments all the time over that I meant the broader sense of costs and benefits and not dollar values. Yeah had that fight many times. 
Well, yeah. 
Just wanted to put that out there. Those were all of my questions as we alluded to there were only four but if there's anything still rattling around in your head on any of these topics now is a good chance to get them out. 
I don't think we really touched on quite enough that. Indigenous sovereignty is really important to to Frontline communities right now. So I think that there's You things existing that the government can do when it comes to consultation but a lot of that has to do with Federal recognized tribes and a lot of the tribes in places like, Texas and Louisiana are state recognized. There could be a number of reasons that their applications have been pending in some cases for almost 50 years like the United home and Nation. you know, I I have heard some people speculate that federally recognized tribes then have federally recognized lands and that the lands that a lot of tribes in south Louisiana, you know have been occupying for a long time or prime, you know oil and gas, you know, Lands, and so there's probably good reasons or not good reasons, but they're there's probably reasons that a lot of these tribes are state recognized that have nothing to do with whether or not their application is filled out correctly, but I still think that there's an obligation that entity's whether they be private or government really consider that that state recognized tribe have an important role to play and this as well. And so I think that's that all policies should Do their best effort? To make sure that the state recognized tribes are all so being consulted. for offshore wind development 
That makes a lot of sense. Now, you mentioned tribes before with the West Coast example, I'm glad you brought that back up because I was wondering about the Louisiana ones in particular. Is that it in terms of things rattling around? 
Yeah. 

