So thinking about all those Realms of expertise they are related. What are some of the benefits or drawbacks to the ecosystem of the Gulf of Mexico? That might be changed by offshore wind. 
I think when I need to be consider is that you know, we're talking about putting a lot of structures out there. I don't think they're gonna be quite the same as well gas structures, but we're gonna cover larger areas with maybe smaller structures, which and being a Fisheries biologist marine biologist, I feel like that is gonna affect the Dynamics of the fish fire opulations any kind of migration patterns or you know it that there's gonna be some impact when you put something out in the Gulf you displace something to bring something else in so so at this point, I I don't think there's necessarily a negative or positive impact to the structures there, but I think it would be nice to have more Baseline going into this and then as these structures are put out there and maybe some studies go on during the extraction of wind and stuff and then like all good things things have to come to an end and there will be decommissioning of some of these structures if that whole fields of structures for various reasons and I think it complete life cycle of this really ought to be thought of now I got into the rigs to Reef portion and the decommissioning was More of an afterthought and to be honest with you depending on your operator or whatever. It's still an afterthought and we deal with it when it comes not looking as a complete life cycle. So that is my two cents on. You know possibly some things that could be done differently with wind energy as far as looking at this from birth the grave. so 
Yeah, yeah, that's a really good point. at I'm gonna follow up first on the the structures itself are different. You said more space. smaller structures over a larger area Is there anything else that's different about the structures that we should be thinking about and then what does that mean for the fish? Do you think? 
Well, I really think you know, it's gonna depend on the type of structure and where they're putting the golf, you know, like you're talking about floating structures way off there that's gonna different population ecosystem that is going to affect versus this a lot of these are on the shelf or shelf Edge. You know it really it's What size you know if they're monopiles, you know, we had a lot of case-ons in the Gulf of Mexico. Yes. They provide habitat. Did they provide unique habitat? That's really a ecosystem Builder my professional opinion. I think it provide habitat, but not as a single pile by themselves, but if you start putting several hundred 
right 
of these in a group depending on their spacing could create a different ecosystem Dynamic That You Don't See with the way the one with gastric is replace because their areas where you have a lot of structures that are concentrated and then other areas where you might see one every few miles and the Dynamics around those structures are different based on the size and complexity of them. so 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense and like you said we don't. 
I mean, I I just think the Gulf of Mexico is not one big homogeneous Zone that everybody often thinks it is it's not I mean got everything from You know right off, you know New Orleans. I mean you have areas that drop off and you know thousands of feet really quickly. So you have a different Dynamic there versus Maybe Texas, you know right on northern part where you know, you have to go out a hundred miles before you can get to 200 feet deep. So there's a big differences. 
Yeah on that note in the geography. I know boom is eyeing Louisiana and Texas in particular Are there specific spots or parts of that geography that are really important to pay attention to if the wind goes there versus somewhere else. in terms of logical effects 
um I can't say I've been following closely on all the wind energy stuff. I do know before the big push now there's a seem like there was a big potential for wind energy in South Texas The problem down there is that you have the North Padre National Seashore you have migration of sea turtles and stuff in and out of there. I see that as maybe that's a good place to put women energy. But also maybe more problematic as far as other, you know biological aspects. um, and you know, there are other areas in the Gulf, you know like that as well where you have areas that you're going to impact. I think there's a lot more hard bottom habitat in the Gulfs and people are necessarily aware of And the sanctuary just expanded to a number of banks that we've known about for years. So there's different protections there, which we're seeing. Differences and how we're regulating oil and gas around those areas, even though the banks have been there for thousands of years. We're now because they're a sanctuary we have a different viewpoint on it so 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. You had mentioned displacement 
can 
earlier and I think this relates to what you were just talking about. 
yeah. 
What do you think might be displaced with wind coming in? What and where I suppose? 
um, I mean, you know well, I mean Anytime you put something on the sea floor where at a certain habitat you displace something, you know without going to each individual spot. Okay. I mean, there's one area we did a Nearshore Reef where we put a bunch of cinder blocks and other things on there. Well, we Dove it beforehand and stuff looked at it and That you couldn't put your hand on the seafloor without touching some kind of brittle star or something. So in the end of the day, we display something we created new environment and I'm pretty sure the San Francisco and stuff that congregated there obviously did something different with the brittle stars and all that and maybe it was just a migration thing. So I I guess. I can't give you specific someone's gonna happen, but I think that's where I'm my point earlier that we need a baseline of these areas and studies during the operations. And then, you know look at it later on. I mean you're gonna see changes in the ecosystem here. It's not it's not going to be status quo. It's no different than us going into a force and say hey we want to turn this to farmland and tell you right now the critters and stuff that are living on that Farmland. They're not the same that we're the hardwood force that you display. So you know, maybe not that dramatic, but I think out of sight out of mind and the ocean waters people don't realize it. There are resources down there. Maybe they're not as important to us. Financially or commercially but that doesn't mean they're not important to our overall ecosystem. So so I'm not saying we shouldn't do any of this. I'm just saying that We need to have some sound science to. Back this up or at least follow along and realize at some point. Well, maybe we shouldn't be doing this or you know, it's 
right 
I mean I You know, I haven't gotten into it. It's like one thing that comes to mind when I think of this like you're talking about a new electrical energy field out there. That that alone and then maybe sound from the propellers. I've been out and you know. The Panhandle and stuff you can hear those turbines turned and that's on land. So it's I'm just saying there there's gonna be some new factors that need to be considered that. you know, it's gonna have to weigh the pluses and minuses and see where we need that within our societal needs. 
Right, so thinking about that monitoring you just rattled off a bunch, but are there particular things that you really think we should be monitoring moving forward? 
I think no one kind of species count position you're displacing and then the species composition that shows up or maybe you see a change in migratory patterns, maybe all of a sudden all the Wahoo like to go through the wind turbines and their annual migration. Maybe it's a great place for whale sharks or maybe they don't like the electrical field and they're nowhere around them. I mean I mean, I don't know the answer what all the monitoring needs to be. But I do think there's plenty of bright Minds out there that can talk about, you know things that this could have an effect on. so 
Yeah, totally. 
and it might not be negative. I mean, maybe all this creates, you know this. I mean like I worked with artificeries so I I want full 
It's 
disclosure that not our all artificial reefs are created equal not all our planned and deployed properly. 
right 
Have I been part of some that are not as up to my standards? Yes, but I've also created some reaps that I'm very proud of and that I think are hidden gems and provide ecosystem in the Gulf that people aren't aware of for one. They're way offshore not visited very often. They're kind of their own pseudo Sanctuary out there. 
Yeah, so you mentioned the balance with societal needs. Also, that's part of our model the social human Dimensions part of it. So is there anything on that side of 
right 
the equation that we should be monitoring as well? 
I mean at a time my Arabic for teeth. Yeah, I mean it. but Okay, so say the Gulf Mexico. This is just my opinion, but I feel like oil and gas is. definitely At least on the Shelf Edge, it's not as productive as it used to be in like the 80s and 90s and we have a large decrease in the number of structures there. So we have a Workforce. in Louisiana and Texas and stuff that You know. Can be transitioned into this kind of work, they have the expertise. They have the ability. They've done things out there. I mean there there's equipment and stuff that gone on in the Gulf that that's most average person don't understand what's going on out there. and the impact those could have so 
right 
but I do see it as a potential for you know. Transitioning the workforce into something else in the Gulf. I do think I guess. I guess going back tomorrow artificial brief days stakeholders and stuff. I mean you're gonna have the people have been shrimping, you know, since they got over here. There's gonna be a bunch of different Fisheries issues. you know, you're gonna have to see you know, how this works and then Like even for artificial reefs, there's a big difference what goes on in the Gulf versus Atlantic versus the Pacific? And oil and gas and the people that work with oil and gas were you know intertwined in the Gulf? so they fished on them they recreated around them and but at the same time, you know, they worked on the oil and gas platforms. So there was this harmony now go to the West Coast and stuff and hold on. It's like my Roomba decided to start. 
Sorry about that. I don't know if you could hear that, but I could. 
well, that's fair. I couldn't hear it. But I've been there so I understand. 
Yeah, they always turn on when you don't want to do anyway, um. so I guess I was just talking about different stakeholders and there's gonna be a societal effect, you know to this and I think this opportunities and there's also people feel like they're displaced and You're taking over areas that are historically theirs and they're not gonna be happy about it. And you know, somehow you got to bring them to the table and let them know. What can and can be allowed in this and that's gonna drive, you know people's perceptions. I mean if people aren't allowed to fish around these or have to stay out of these large areas that they could or that was their path to their favorite fishing spot and they have to go around 10 miles. You're going to create some unintended. problems 
I'm sorry. All right. I think you mostly handled question number two, but I'm gonna throw it out there just to get you thinking because we missed anything. It's about mechanisms between the changes we talked about. How are they actually happening and you mentioned things like migration Roots might change because of sound as an example. Is there anything else mechanistically that we should be thinking about? 
ecosystem level or 
some level 
I do think I mean, I don't know what the workflow between coast and these areas and what kind of Maintenance and stuff is going to have to happen. So you know right now is like, you know, all oil and gas has the beware of you know recess well, so that's not something that the wind energy people aren't gonna have to be worried about and actually, you know, if they decide they want to do floating ones over an area that's potentially preferred habitat. That's gonna be a problem. So so I think construction routes maintenance routes, you know, how often these things are visited or you know, maybe they're not visited very often gets all remote control, but I'm pretty sure there's gonna be maintenance on these turbines. Um, I guess one thing I haven't touched on is. How is this in the Gulf of Mexico be handled as far as hurricanes? Or what if the hurricane comes through and wipes out your 200 turbines and puts them all in the sea floor. 
right 
What what do you think's gonna happen? Are you do you think you can just reform there? Maybe not. Can you rebuild I don't know. 
Yeah, that is a good question. 
nobody likes to think about that but we've had a couple good hurricanes that took out a lot of Aging structures. Maybe you know initially the structures are able to handle it but 10 years down the road turbines been turning putting a lot of stress on the structure. Cat too come through you don't think anything's gonna happen white them all out. So I mean in engineering standards for 
Yeah. 
platforms. Have changed over time and especially after Katrina and Rita. 
Well, that makes sense. 
Katrina and Rita actually 
changed a lot of Standards like deck Heights things like that, you know wave loading so Yeah, so it I think you know. What is the I mean, there's a real world potential for hurricane coming through the Gulf of Mexico. So what what is the plan of action there? Or who's it or who's ensuring this? 
For sure. 
So when they do get wiped out and not producing any money who's gonna who's gonna want to feel that so that's a socioeconomic thing. 
Yeah, totally is that how it works in oil and gas they're insured in case of natural disasters. 
now But they make enough money and so they're pretty much. Self-insured they put bonds up. That's the thing. I don't know what the mechanism for when energy is like are they having to bond all this stuff so that when it comes time to decommission, they have the funding to do that or if there's a hurricane that they have the funding to take care of what needs to be done to either resurrected decommission it whatever so I'm not privy to that. I'm not looked into that but just from a lot of gas standpoint some of the bigger Majors that are definitely more cash heavy. Don't have to do quite the bonding that like a minor player would have to do. but even that being said in the last five years or so, we've seen some 
just 
bankruptcies. We've seen things going back to previous owners. So it's not it's not all roses in the oil and gas field. So 
yeah. it sounds like geography matters a lot in that too like 
yeah. 
distinctly where your platform is My next question is thinking outside of your realm of expertise. So things you may have heard sort of in the project broader Community what other changes might we see as related to Offshore wind development. You may have hit on you hit on a lot of different areas, but 
and I I do think geopolitics play a role in this and so and I'm not even talking about just you know, like get the state level. I'm talking about, you know, you drill down to some commissioner and some Parish on the coast and You know. Maybe that's not the best spot for but maybe the ones pushing for it the most I don't know. I mean there's there's a lot of M. I would say dealing with artificial reefs. I ran into a lot of different things and I ran into stakeholders. They never thought I'd run into. And to be honest with my first started doing artificial reefs in the 90s. It seemed like there was maybe four players in the Gulf of Mexico. I think that number is probably 20 30, you know or more, you know, it's so the landscape has changed over time. And also the power of different stakeholders of change over time. commercial fisherman and shrimpers I think at one point had a larger hold on the political realm and stuff. But over time I think the recreational fishermen at least in the fishery standpoint of taking over the bulk. of the you know the political power, so it's But there's always stakeholders out there that you sometimes seem to forget and then all of a sudden at the last minute they pop up. 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Is there anything in your world of? Reef stakeholders that you think might fall in that category for after a wind But we're not thinking of them yet, but we do. 
Um, hopefully you're thinking about commercial shipping. you know, they have designated safety Fairways and stuff out there, but you might find out that somebody's been shipping through a certain area that you now deem us. 
yeah, that makes us 
Nice, 
Yeah, speaking of geopolitics early. 
Yeah. It is what it is. 
all of that cost them more money to go around. Awesome. Hopefully you guys are working with military. There are military zones in the gulf and there are certain areas, especially. Probably not areas maybe and more on the Eastern Edge, you know. They have, you know different roles because they actually have active training and stuff. 
There are military zones in the gulf and there are certain areas, especially. Probably not areas maybe and more on the Eastern Edge, you know. They have, you know different roles because they actually have active training and stuff. and then you know We do border, you know. Mexico so, you know that's 
Okay. 
Yeah. 
know, Brownsville, you know. you know through the gulf so 
Yeah, for sure. 
There's that whole International 
I have one last question. And actually it's out the players 
thing. 
still but from your perspective what 
So 
management actions might be able to affect some of the Dynamics we talked about today. And these can be pie in the sky might never happen or things that are realistic and this really is directly to your jobs since you do the NEPA permitting, too. 
yeah, so, I mean it's just the Gulf seems fairly small and very uncomplicated, but I think it's more complicated now than it used to be. Not to say it's necessarily a bad thing. It's just there's a lot more awareness a lot more going on out there. I guess. Thing I'm neepa and stuff is like, you know cultural resources, you know. you know what's being done on the front end to make sure that we're you know leases go out there and I know there's notices and the leases about you know, you gotta be aware of all this stuff out there, but you know some of these players buying areas to lease Hopefully they're doing their due diligence to know we don't there aren't any anticipated, you know. Historic shipwrecks it right in the middle of our lease. And now we have to avoid, you know thousands of feet or can't do what we want to can't run the transmission line. I guess the transmission lines is like all this stuff no matter where you put it. It's got to come to shore somewhere. So then you run into now we went from federal to state. So we see that with gas pipeline just like you know. You have the state and you got ferc which you know firks a different Federal agency. We got to deal with so, I don't know how for plays into this. Crossing any of the you know, safety Fairways. I mean have a US Coast Guard Corps of Engineers. So, I mean, I'm sure you guys are aware of this but there's a lot of players. When you start talking about taking the transmission lines and everything elsewhere. so but so hopefully I've touched on what you wanted and give you some insight into some areas that I'm aware of. Okay. Yeah, right. just being on the inside a little bit as like I I do think there's people in the newer wind energy group that not that they haven't been part of oil and gas but it's just like sometimes we discount all the Lessons Learned in oil and gas. Maybe they don't all truly apply. But oh my gas has been going on in the golf since like the 30s. And so there's been 7,000 structures installed in the golf and there's less than 2,000 left. So there's been a lot of work. done on all aspects of this and that I do feel like there's times where we the agency has gotten into The Silo modes. Where we only work on this and that's all we know or you know, it's you know, we we can't do it because everybody hates falling gas. So, you know, there's nothing they can tribute so I do feel like there's a lot of stuff that's gone in the golf. Especially oil and gas. It does pertain to wind energy whether people like it or not. Do we need to follow the model that always acid completely no. No, so. They're definitely some changes that need to be done, but you can't discount. You know the knowledge that. You come or you know, the trepidations became across or Creative Solutions, whatever you want to call it. 
yeah. 
So 
What's at the top of your list like if you had to pass some advice along? 
I really think looking at women energy problem beginning to the end. I think you have to look at the whole process. I do think. maybe at this point some people are too focused. We just got to get it out there. Well, there are some problems of getting stuff out there without properly analyzing the situation as I say wind energy is bad, but maybe the area you want to put it in with a very bad area and that you should have moved it. Because you weren't willing to do the 
here, right 
work up front, and I know people don't want to hear that but I find that doing a lot of work up front makes. the you know to follow through a lot easier instead of brush fire managing it throughout the process. So that's my take on it. Maybe not the opinion of Boom or 
Yeah. 
other agencies, but that's 
makes logical sense at least The Long View for sure 
and and Alison our government works slow and you know I feel like there's times or there's other changes. I would have liked to make through my career but I did incremental changes. I can and things that probably matter most to me and that I think are most productive but Can't change at all. 
there so those are all of my questions. Is there anything else rattling around in your head that? You want to get in? 
No, I don't think I think I probably spanned a lot quite a diverse area and probably more than maybe you want to  
