Starting with all things fish which it sounds like is your deep realm of expertise. 
Yes, I am the resident fish nerd. 
Love it. So what are the some aspects of the ecosystem of the Gulf of Mexico that might be changed as a result of offshore wind? 
I mean, I think that the first is pretty obvious that everybody initially thinks of is the artificial Reef effect that we know occurs when you put Steel or concrete or crushed rock in the water? And because these structures are going to be vertically throughout the water column, you know, you're gonna have a very diverse. I think type of fish assemblages that are going to be associated with those types of structures versus like more less diverse like as far as vertical relief types of artificial reefs that get put in the Gulf of Mexico in shallower waters. yeah, so I mean obviously things are gonna Things Are Gonna Change we're gonna have we're gonna have inverts being attracted and then all the way all the way up the food chain, and then you're gonna have Your pelagics I think gosh, we're the first were the first lease area is it's pretty shallow. So I have a feeling we're gonna have maybe some Coastal pelagic. Coastal phelagic species hanging out we get cool. We do get questions about the coastal pelagics. I don't know. I don't think there's a ton note about Coastal pelagics is exactly where they go and if their migrations change, I know that that's a question that gets or a concern, you know that gets brought up. Are about potential changes to migratory patterns for Coastal pelagics and offshore pelagics as well. I don't know that I don't know that anyone really has a good answer to that question. 
interesting Yeah, I know. This is a very broad question. so we're gonna delve into it a little bit more. So you've mentioned migration is being one of sort of how fish and the wind turbines might be related habitat. Is there anything else? When we're thinking of a model, we're kind of drawn that line between the fish and the wind turbines and how they interact. Any other pathways? 
Oh as like but like potential negative potential negative. 
Or positive either way. 
well, yeah, I mean just right so typically the positive depending on who you ask where artificial Reef effect the traction of certain Reef 
Yeah. 
species and you have like Downstream potential positive effects on like recreational or commercial Reef 
right 
Fisheries, obviously negative impacts that could be to other Fisheries shrimp Fisheries that Offshore winter binds, you know or Farms or could potentially preclude them from fishing in there. There's no rules saying they can't fish within a wind farm. 
right 
They can't necessarily be excluded but would they want efficient there? I don't know that's up to the individual negative impacts. There's a lot of potential negative impacts that are discussed. the public and in the literature, I think the first ones that come to mind that are still, you know being Studied now like in Earnest or the hydrodynamic impacts, like there's a lot of questions and unknowns about hydrodynamic impacts to you know, larval larval distributions particularly. And so, you know, that's something we're thinking about here as well. You know, that's That's an area of research. I know our office is interested in potentially pursuing under the Atlantic. Has funded a study and I think there are funding and add-on study to to a bone budget that I'm a study up there. I don't know if I'm answering your question. Okay, EMF. 
you are 
Obviously another one. No noise, of course noise. 
right 
I'll pile driving. Um site characterization surveys. So that's high resolution geophysical surveys that is side scan sonar multi-beam ecosometers. and then and then in addition in addition to hrg surveys, there's gonna be benthic surveying that's happening as part of the site characterization phase that's actually gonna be happening in the next like Year or two and so so it will be like vibrate course sampling like all different types of chlorine. That's gonna be occurring and the Corine really is to look at geotechnical aspects to like so that the engineers, you know, get a concept of of what the seabed is like and if it's conducive for like what types of jackets or like the diameter of the piles. That's not my area of expertise. But that that's affiliate. That's what they'll be looking at. And then there were also be grab samples taken. I believe that will I imagine will be looked at from a biological standpoint as far as like what what kind of Critters we have around there and that'll be along the export cable as well with in and within at least area. 
nice, so you mentioned 
Yeah, sorry. 
you before I started. 
I think what else I'm like, oh, I'm like, oh right Fisheries. No officeries survey preclusion of no officiary surveys. That's obviously, you know an issue that has come up that we are actively talking to, you know, a folks from Noah's Southeast regional office about that and and talking about potential collaborations and strategies for to mitigate those potential impacts So that would be for the Fisheries long term independent surveys as well as the protected species surveys. So those aerial surveys. Is as well. 
makes sense I'm gonna go back a bit to a thing. You said about the least being somewhat shallow in Louisiana and bring it in coastal pelagics are there. Different or special considerations depending on debts or geography of where these things end up that we should be thinking about. 
Well, yeah, I mean, I think if you read the literature about like the artificial Reef effect in the Gulf of Mexico it the species assemblages are very different depending on water water depth is like one of the huge is one of the huge things in like distance to shore. 
right 
yeah, I remember reading a study about that not long ago that came out so so yeah, that will make a big I think that's really gonna be a big indicator of that's gonna affect what you're going to see. around around the structures 
That makes a lot of sense just wanted you to sort of articulate it and the other thing you mentioned was the key the gear types like the shrimpers might not want to go in even if they are allowed. So thinking more about the fisherman I suppose. What sort of effects do you think they might how might the fishery change but thinking about human side of it? a little bit more 
Um, okay. Well so you could have right like you could have preclusion so you could you know, now you're creating an area that's no longer available. However, we we did we did engage in a very thorough in a special modeling. Collaboration with with Noah in which we were very proactive in trying to avoid highly utilized. For very productive fishing grounds, right? So presumably we did our job in the areas that have been selected are we know that I mean, I can say that for for shrimp, you know, we've worked very closely with the shrimp industry and so far they, you know, I want to put words in their mouth seems seem to be pleased with with the way that that process went about and that we have, you know removed areas with like as much as we could of moderates a high shrimp shrimping effort. Um, but with that said there could be people that still they're fishermen that would still perhaps maybe one efficient there. They can't they might have to go around it. So then you have potential increases in you. But so time on the water costs vessels. Yeah, the fuel costs you might you might use that as an indicator. I guess like increased time in the water effort costs that could potentially change if these if they don't want to Transit through the wind arm I don't know. I mean, I guess I don't see I mean they're a mile apart. I guess I would think a short vessel could. wouldn't have too much of an issue issue traveling through a wind farm to if they wanted to get to a fishing ground on the other side, but I don't know that for sure. And so that's that's that fishery the pelagic long line Fisheries to my understanding shouldn't be an issue. You know, we we got that effort data from Noah as well over related on a map and that those fishing grounds are far away from where these these Wii is at least areas are so that necess I don't foresee. Any real conflict there The Reef fishery. I think it really depends who you what sector you talk to the 
He's right. 
And again, this is like I don't want to put words in and everybody's mouths, but I you know. I I have heard some recreational fishermen say things akin to how can we help you? Put these structures in the water faster. So that's like one end of the spectrum right? And then you have and then you have like the other end of the spectrum maybe more on the commercial side wanting to stay away from productive. Fishing grounds, right? So for them for them, that would be hard bottoms, but but again, it depends it depends who you talk to and And presumably I mean I my understanding is that commercial Reef fisherman in the Gulf of Mexico also, fish Target artificial structures, like standing oil and gas platforms so I could foresee these structures. You know providing a benefit to that industry as well over time, perhaps fairly quickly. I mean, I think I think the literature supports that that these structures support communities fairly quickly within like a few years. And and then and then on top of that the other recreational sector, I mean the Head Boats and Charter Charters I could see I could see that you know. Creating a positive effect. And who knows and Coastal pelagics? I don't I don't know. You know, I don't know it's on. that that Fisheries a little bit more 
Okay. 
obscure and if you like a Carter to get information about at least on my end and no no more about that fishery and exactly how they fish. So, I don't know if they would benefit from no targeting Logics. That would be perhaps attracted to those structures. I don't know and I think that's another question too. Is that like the The oil and gas structures in the Gulf of Mexico. Yes, there are many but they're spread out kind of sporadically versus like the the wind farm structures are going to be very uniform and like relatively, you know close together. So it would be kind of interesting to to see 
Yeah. 
What the potential differences are in like maybe even like fish movements in between them? Are you know another question that has come up is of a concern that I've heard from fishermen is that if they are put near hard bottoms would would refinish that are on those hard bottoms potentially abandoned the natural. hard bottoms and go and prefer the standing structures and then that would then make them more vulnerable to exploitation by fishermen because fishermen 10 in this is also my my opinion my understanding for my experience in the Gulf of Mexico. Is that fishermen? Especially the recreational tend to prefer fishing on staining oil and gas platforms. You can tie up to them. They're it's they're easier to fish 
wait 
when you fish over natural bottom in these deeper waters. You're not anchoring you're kind of just or you might maybe you do anchor I think a lot of times I've seen people drift over them. But now that I say that out loud I'm like we did have a meeting with commercial fisherman a couple years and they did mention that they do anchor ahead of the hard bottoms at times so they may be more experienced and maybe more likely to fish natural hard bottoms and recreational fisherman. I don't know. I guess that's a question something that could that's something that 
And yeah. 
could be explored to right. Um, but so yeah, so that that I have heard of that is a concern of constituences that that these structures attract refresh that are then gonna be overexploited and then quoted then you're gonna take Downstream impacts of like reduce. photos And annual cash flow of the things. 
right 
Yeah. 
interesting For sure. Yeah. Okay. Thank are there any other sort of unanswered scientific questions, you've mentioned a few that you've heard rattling through that need to be answered. 
Yeah, I mean I think that or anything in addition to what? 
anything in addition 
Um, what what are the big things? I don't think lighting really I'm trying to think of like our typical. 
Yes. 
Impact producing actors that we talk about in boom documents. It's like lighting is one but there's really not gonna be much lighting at all on these structures. I just don't anticipate that being an issue had your Dynamics is the big one the they go in the big in the big un unknown, you know. And they're doing a lot of research in Europe about that too. And there seems to be just conflicting, you know. 
Of course. 
Results and implications there. Um And there's a em. Yeah EMF. I had your Dynamics EMF and Yes. Yeah, and the potential for over like attraction versus attraction versus production. That's always been that's still unanswered and in a constant, I think debate. I don't know if it'll ever be answered. But this is a great opportunity. I would think to do a study like that like if I don't know how much hard bottom natural is gonna be around. This current least area. Just considering where it is. 
It's 
I don't know that for sure but that's my that's my gut feeling because it would be it. I think it would be super interesting to do like a before Baseline study of like tagged refinish in the area and then put in you know for a few years beforehand put in these structures and see what happens. Um, 
Can can I jump in can I jump in for 
but yeah. 
second? So on the hydrodynamics that's something that we've talked internally about a little bit but in our external interviews, you're among the first. People or your you're one of the first people to bring it up. So when you talk about hydrodynamic impacts and potential Downstream ecosystem impacts of hydrodynamics, you talked about larval distribution as potential like negative impact are there other ecosystem services that you think could potentially be impacted by hydrodynamic-sided positively or negatively like what is what's the best case in worst case kind of in your mind with potential hydrodynamic impacts 
I mean, I guess maybe there could be Downstream impacts to I mean, I'm thinking like pray items for marine mammals and and birds. and and yeah, I mean key I mean key Fisheries species managed managed Fisheries species is gonna I would think be one of the major concerns or or species of of interest if studies were ever to happen for that. You would pick some sort of managed species as a study. study species, but worst case scenarios Yeah, that there's some major major impact population level impacts. I mean that's always what we're concerned with and and what we are, you know looking at when we're writing environmental impact statements if we're when we're determining the level of potential impact. It's like what are the population level effects and that's not an easy question to answer. I think that um and I don't know if I have I have much else. there 
Sounds good. I think we've tackled this a lot. But my next question is outside of Fisheries. What do you know or think might change about the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem as a result of offshore wind development? And this might be just things you've heard. So anything we haven't talked about. 
things 
I I let me see my first first that I think that the artificial Reef effect on like I was saying earlier about how close these structures are and and I don't understand think it's a bad thing. Um, I don't necess I'm not necessarily saying that it's gonna be a negative thing. It could be a positive thing depending on how you look at it. And because we don't have answers to a lot of these questions about like the impacts to migrations or the Downstream impacts of like potential overexploitation I don't it's hard for me to answer the question. I just don't there's always a we don't we don't know. It could be that it ends up being this kind of impromptu Marine protected type of area. I don't know but maybe not because I think that they will I think that these areas will be likely heavily targeted by recreational fishermen. So there is the potential for over it. There might be the potential for overexploitation. I don't know. And what I yeah, I'm sorry. I know you said outside of Fisheries. I don't know. There's really nothing that jumps out at me. to area is so it'll and and we're not as as far as climate change goes and impacts. the the effects of warming Waters and changing species distributions or just not at least what I have seen in red in the literature. They're not as pronounced in the Gulf of Mexico as they are and the temperate, you know water areas. 
That's it. 
Atlantic Coast Pacific coast and so, you know that that is a major concern that is consistently brought up in those regions. It's brought up here. I've heard, you know climate change and keep cumulative effects. There we go. That's I think that's that's that's 
right 
an impact that you know, another major unknown that a lot of that gets brought up a lot of the times but But yeah, because because the climate change affects here and I feel like are not as obvious and not as pronounced that I think it's hard to maybe. For see any sort of big Major Impact that there could be there's concerned about invasive species. You know, I think people have a concerns about evasive species as well that gets brought up a lot. Well everywhere. We know we have invasive species. We have lionfish. We have orange cup Coral. I'm sure there's some others. Those are the two biggies that I can think of something my head, but they're here already. I don't know how we're gonna get rid of them and like well, This but yes, but sure putting up a wind farm in in having that many structures that close together could potentially help. Their spread but they're already here and they're already spread. So I don't know how much more the you 
Yeah. 
How much how much more it could get I yeah, I don't know but another area for of interest and potential research. 
Totally yeah. picturing lionfish love in the new reefs too, but you're right. They would anyway. 
Oh, thank you. I've Dove on oil rigs in there. They love them. They're all over the place and they're in deep water too. So there's no adult. They find them three 400 feet of water down here on natural bottom. So like I just there's no fishing rodeos diving rodeos to take them out. In the in the northern Gulf of Mexico, unfortunately. 
All right, my next question from your perspective what management actions would be able to affect the relationships we talked about so far. 
stakeholder Outreach engagement Collaboration is that I think the big word there listening. 
hmm 
you know as in in the in the Management Field, I feel like that's that's the first and foremost important thing that we can do, um in into understand what the potential impacts are work with stakeholders to figure out what potential mitigations are that are reasonable. on both sides boom has a mission, you know, we have our mission and our regulations that that guide what we do that include, you know supporting offshore energy development 
right 
and an economically in environmentally sound way, right? And so, um So there's yeah there's a hard there's a balance there of trying to write to like figure out the medication in a way. That doesn't Result in projects being completely economically and viable either right? 
right 
and and being What's the word I'm looking for? I guess being really I don't want to say the word. we try to omplish in stud IES too, and I think there's a lot of there's a lot of ideas out there about studies that need to occur, but The real question is what would we do with the results so and there's a finite amount of money in so figuring out what? What are the really important questions and what would we do with those answers whatever management management wise? Right and for us management wise two would be like right like figure where where will we put these things that are gonna have the least amount of impact? What other types of management actions um management actions? Let me see we put on my management hat here. Things that we can do management wise that we have the authority to do potential. Yeah mitigations that could be written into like so least at least stipulations. conditions of approval so those are like hard things, you know that that boom could could do right. yeah, I mean those I think that those are the the ones that come to mind. 
So you mentioned things like spacing before what about engineering details? I don't know if that's quite the right word. But sort of the devil's in the details right of how this plays out. So have you heard any of those that we should be writing down of you know, if they build it a certain way then this might happen. 
Um well, so the the one by one nautical miles spacing is something that kind of developed in the Northeast was I think kind of like an and I don't exactly know how that number came about. I want I want to say it was through Fisheries Outreach and it was kind of determined. that that was a fair spacing to allow, you know safe navigation through but I think that also depends on who you ask some folks say they want it bigger. But the problem with going bigger is then you need more cable than you have higher EMF impacts and then and then and then you're increasing costs to the companies and then there's that and then um, so It you're right. Is it like I said before it's a balancing. It's a balancing act. Devil in the details. What else? scour protection is another thing that is brought up but because the of the depths of the current we as it's we're operating the assumption that it will be jackets and jackets. Do not require scour protection. 
interesting 
Current currently, right and none of that. None of the oil and gas platforms that I have jackets to I believe don't have scour protection that is that is for that is a monopile specific thing and and I it would I don't we're gonna be doing pile driving. I'm sure but we don't have We're Not Gonna Be pile driving in hard bottoms here. Are we you know soft bottom in the Gulf of Mexico is ubiquitous and so totally different. Terrain, it's a part of terrain in the Atlantic where they have a lot of hard bottom and then so your pile driving into into rock. Um, there's a lot of more like you technical concerns there and potentially now, I'm not a sound expert. I don't know I would I would assume that like, maybe the noise is higher and like and it goes on in the duration is longer because it would probably takes longer to pile drive into Bedrock than it does into clay or silts. but but yeah, I know pile driving is like the big the one of the biggest concerns that is consistently brought up. and right now where we don't have plans for floating so there wouldn't be any like concerns for floating cables and things like that currently that always changing it that could always change in the future. 
Yeah makes sense. That is a newer technology. All right. Those are all of our questions so now I'll kick it over to you if there's anything else rattling around in your head that you'd like to get out. On any topic that we've touched on thus far. 
I mean not that I can think of. 
that s then I'll hand it over to will to see if he has any clarifying questions on his model. 
now the hydrodynamics one was the big one because like I said, it's something that we've talked about a little bit internally and I think just given our background and kind of the way that we interact with the ecosystem. I think it's something that's on top of mind for us, but maybe not for some of the other stakeholders that we've been thinking about. So I I appreciate your clarification on that, but I'll stop the recording now and we can we can 
