Let's try to figure it would start kind of with. fisheries and we'll use it, you know, especially specific to Louisiana and Commercial Fisheries related offshore wind, but we'll probably then kind of Branch out from there because especially for sea Grant you'll have your hand and pretty much a lot of things. but my old committee members Cheryl or cherry Larkin is now the Florida sea Grant right? I still talk to her sometimes anyways. So let's start with kind of Louisiana commercial Fisheries. What what are the impacts that? You're potentially for seeing in these could be better benefits, but also and also deleterious impacts to Louisiana commercial fishing from offshore wind that you're anticipating from both maybe the construction and operation phases of optional and development. 
Yeah, so one of the big questions we're hearing a lot is and we haven't seen the best financial hasn't been determined if they will be anchored structure or you know on a platform versus a floating platform. which then changes, you know some of those benefits and you know negative impacts. As a whole I'll say the biggest concerns. I'm hearing or that is What though what the restrictions will be? Will it actually close off areas to commercial and/or recreational fishing or will those areas be open? In terms of actual populations things like that for the most part especially for a correctional. We already have so much structure in the water with all of the Offshore platforms. And those are known to be large, you know congregation areas for fish and other species. That most of the recreational fishermen at least, you know, we would fully expect that. It's going to give them more opportunities unless they're completely blocked off. For security. I know in some areas of the world. They are in some areas the world they're not. So we're not hearing too much. They're really worried about really direct impacts to the species. is again we already it's kind of just more stuff in the water. We have a lot of stuff in the water already and it's not really anything different. It's just what's different above the water. 
Yeah, so you're expecting these to function pretty similar to you know, the oil and gas infrastructure. 
Yes. 
That kind of already in place. In terms of just providing. High Relief vertical structure and substrate and 
Because you're off, Louisiana. 
improve that 
extract we have no natural structure, so Which any of the reef fish any of those things are only on artificial structure? and even offshore whether it's an actual rig or whether it's a pipeline, so even you know, if there's pipelines for cables things like that. Even though are heavy fishing areas. or recreational and Commercial finfish 
something I've personally thought a lot about is wondering because you know, and it comes to this exclusion Zone it. Points to this, you know really Broad. Ranked question of like it would work like a de facto Marine protected area. which which of course could have, you know, ecological benefits and potentially affiliate Fisheries spillover benefits, but then also, you know access are there other there's a much thought about you know, that potentially being something that could be palatable or something that or is that just too far too speculative? 
Um, and so in the science Community, I know I've seen some of the research that just came out that helped support that theory. In somewhere in Europe. I forget exactly where at this point but Yeah, I think right now it's almost for most of the industry or for most of the coastal residents. It's still kind of too far off. And I think there then the big question is, you know, is it an area they were fishing before and now would be excluded and if that's the case there will definitely be a lot of tension on the flip side of it's an area that they really weren't fishing and now it is believed that this could be, you know, kind of yeah or protected area that is creating a refuge helping increase. Then I don't think they'll really, you know, they'll be excited about that. I know there is some active research even with the artificial existing artificial reefs to look at you know. Are they just congregating? What's there? Are they actually seen an increase in population because of these structures? 
Yeah, which is the other big question the production versus aggregation. 
Yes. 
question and it's really interesting psychologically. They bring that up or whether or not they're already fishing it. So if it's a loss of something then that's that's going to be a different than the potential that it doesn't actually change them, but it could create more just kind of structure. 
And at least for Louisiana, I mean that is an area that LNG has already become so active in that. I know there's been a lot of tension between the fishing industries and LNG already. Partly in the water partly just the increased traffic. Probably unsure of just buying up, you know any affordable housing. Basically make it possible. 
That's what's lmg. 
uh liquid nitrogen gas 
Okay. part of light oil and gas 
So there's several really large. Facilities off of the same area Western, Louisiana, that would be the same major ports for the wind. so I guess in some ways they've already taken the brunt of a lot of the conflict that we don't know if we'll see a lot of new different Conflict at this point. 
so we can that's interesting. So it kind of provides a case study of what offer when might be Or kind of on that you do. You see any other similarity to differences to like to Oil and Gas? Compared to Offshore wind and the impacts that could have on on Fisheries. 
Um I mean so for the most part, you know, obviously we had the largest oil spill back in 2010. And so for most I think it is the thought that you know. Through this probably has let you know something goes horribly wrong. There's probably less negative impacts. We just had it pipeline leaking I think last week or over the weekend and they're still trying to figure out how much was released and so yeah, I think overall on the flip side, you know, almost all the fishing recreational, you know, they're all supported in some way in their families by oil and gas. So it is a really close relationship, but this is Theory you know going to have lesson I'm sure there's a doomsday scenario in which it's a worst case disaster but It seems less likely for that to happen. 
Yeah, one can imagine it's still it's not gonna pump. gallons of oil into the into the Gulf and we talk some about recreational Fisheries or that potential impacts based on structure would it have do Envision other impacts in both positive or negative from construction or operation to other types of Fisheries in Louisiana? 
I mean so some of it is and it's some of the work that still be not on the just you know, oil and gas artificial reefs of So at least I believe. I don't believe are the hypoxic Zone actually usually extends that far over to the wind farm or to the proposed areas that just went under lease, but I know that as some of the work right now that's also being done at LSU and elsewhere is Has a lot of the existing structures are in the hypoxic zone. Are they actually seeing kind of trophic interactions that you know some fish that are moving up to get out of the hypoxic zone or then replacing other fish that should be there. And so maybe they are seen population impacts. you know potentially there's some negative things like that that could occur that, you know, if you get more get more larger reef predators, you may see a slight decline, but for the most part like crab shrimp, those are all such a yearly crop that I'm not really hearing any I guess yeah in Louisiana, there's enough other things for them to worry about like some of the different coastal restoration going in. The VIS has shown will have negative impacts that. We're not hearing a lot from any of the commercial Fisheries that they're really worried about it. for like shrimp, it's more of a Yeah, is it going to restrict more areas where they can drag? basically limit access or would there be a new construction of The pipe the lines for the cables things like that. 
that is another difference from the oil and gas is though there's gonna be cabling that. That London all the way to shore. and that's that's also really interesting compared to like, you know, we've talked to like up Texas that because of the diversions that are going on in Louisiana that it's like in a whole Suite of these major environmental changes. so it's 
And that's and that's really what we're seeing is that you know in like the Texas fishermen are asking for meetings are asking a lot more questions. Or as it's coming up in our meetings with the industry, but it's kind of more of a you know, here's the list and it's somewhere in the middle towards the bottom of current buyers that they're worrying about. 
If that's really interesting. 
I don't know if that's good or bad. Again, I think that's probably what you see in that the least went forward off of Louisiana and didn't off of, Texas. 
up, I mean Hey you work so closely with you know, Coastal communities. As far as secretion, do you envision potential impacts? Part to these communities and how what are some of those things that you're talking that you're thinking about? the offshore wind and the coastal communities the sea Grant works with 
Yes, so we work with several community colleges and I know several are really trying to ramp up. all of the Workforce Development around wind not only you know potential on the water. maintenance care but building, you know, they've already been building fan blades and other things for a while or testing out, you know different options, so You know as we are seeing as a whole Fisheries in oil and gas are just in Decline a lot of those communities, you know, they were never High income to begin with but they have definitely been suffering more and more. We're hoping that you know, potentially this could give an alternative career path. for individuals to hopefully may actually open up. Some of the jobs that's that's one of the big complaints with the LNG facilities when I've heard is that often, you know people working. There aren't the vast majority are not local they come in kind of for their shift. And then fly back out. And so it's just making everything too expensive for the people who actually live there to stay there. 
Here this is it. Is that concern that I guess the offshore wind could be like that too or is there? Is there thinking reason to think that these would be more long-term sustainable local? jobs 
So I know at least it sounds like you know the community colleges and others are trying to ramp up Workforce Development that it could be local people taking. 
he 
Those you know again, I think that it's just kind of the model of the companies that run the LNG to bring in workers from elsewhere. I have no idea if that is or isn't the case for wind and I was I varies on the company, right? 
yeah. Well, how are we looking for? 
A pretty good so far. I think we can keep rolling with the questions. I don't have any anything to clarify yet. 
what? we've kind of focused in on I think it kind of like. areas of intensive expertise for Fisheries, you know ecology in coastal communities, but I do want to kind of open it up some to think about kind of more broadly and you might be sort of speculative here again. We're not holding you to this but we're still trying to kind of more broadly capture, you know any other you know, thoughts concerns. You know about impacts vultural wind development. 
Is that you're sorry that your question is kind of are there? 
Really what I quite. Yeah, that wasn't a question, huh? Yeah, do you have? yeah, just kind of want open up to you know, do you have more you know like broad thoughts or you know of the central concerns or benefits of offshore wind development in Louisiana 
Sure, so. It kind of get back to the communities. I would say the other is that you know, they're hoping that this will even just we have a huge industry of Supply boats and infrastructure. And so there's hope that that will help continue. on the flip side a lot of what we I hear is and we've even asked as you know on some of the calls with different research calls across the sea Grant Community. Category 5 hurricanes a lot of these are not placed in Hurricane zones. And so what really is you know is there you can Model things all day long and models. I fully appreciate their amazing. They can do many things that those of us that do bucket signs can't do but, you know, are they really prepared for that? What is Kind of what is going to you know, if a major storm goes through what is kind of the plans or you know, is it just going to have to be rebuilding things because so much was damaged every single time. Which is a question basic across our Coastal communities with anything and everything at this point. They've acknowledged they can't just keep rebuilding because the storms are not coming too fast and too strong. and so that gets in kind of then that What happens when things are decommissioned? Affiliate things coming back on land what you know, how often what kind of waste is this producing? Is there a plan for that? How long do blades last and things like that? And I know some other countries are requiring that they have to be recyclable or something like that. But are there gonna be those requirements here or then? Yeah what happens? Especially in Louisiana because there is a history. I mean our all of our marshes are just riddled with old oil and gas and fish structure that was eventually left behind it kept being bought out by a smaller company until the final owner just really couldn't afford to remove anything and it was just left behind. They're now trying to do better with that but Definitely been the scenario here before and so are there plans that? These things don't go up and then just are abandoned. Because it doesn't work out like they thought it was going to work out. 
yeah, we want to actually think about end of life. from the beginning 
And how politics I mean I know so this would be offshore but as politics change in the state. With our most recent election, there was a switch from definitely green energy friendly to actively stating you will come, you know work against Green energy. 
So the this is not this is a national. This is Louisiana. 
This is within the state. 
Which I understand Louisiana Politics as its own. 
Not originally from here. It's an interesting. 
So yeah, that's important. 
Full or Statewide politics play in to these larger. 
Yeah. to to do on a shift that towards because you know what it worked so closely with with managing with management because you know seek right you're working between the research of Science and the stakeholders with a huge stake, you know section of that stakeholder Community being managers and policy and decision makers. So all I you know or ask you to kind of speculate of what management actions could be a could be taken to to kind of affect to the mitigate or help optimize some of these. It's some of these impacts, you know, you mentioned today and my notes. I have, you know talk about you talked about recreational fishing a little bit of commercial fishing with shrimp and the ecological impacts we talked about Workforce Development and other things oh I can look through. But yeah, I want you to kind of shift to you know thinking how management could be management actions could be used to to mitigate or optimize these impacts. 
Sure. So the workforce is relatively easy in the at least, you know currently are there quite a few programs and policies in place that facilitate Workforce Development programs at our community colleges has been a large Initiative for several years. Big thing there would just be continuing those. I don't really think most people would work against encouraging Workforce Development. So I think those are pretty stable programs again, I could be proven wrong, but I think those are pretty stable. And that and again because of all of the other issues going on in the state. There is a recognition of needing just new Workforce Development and new ideas, you know new options and career paths for people. In terms of the species or in terms of the fishing. Yeah, a lot of it is, you know, if there are ways to give access that will definitely make some of these things a lot more popular on the flip side. It obviously also has to be safe. So You know working it in a way that you know minimizes impact. If there is an exclusion Zone. It's the actual management, but then it's also the translation of that management of why was that zone picked? Is it as small as it needs to, you know can be You know, what was the decision making process and picking that zone and explaining those things 
into 
definitely goes a long way. I know just even the you know areas themselves or originally selected based on trying to minimize those interactions. But I don't think the industry is here really again because there's so many other fires going on. There wasn't a lot of attention being paid to these areas. Things like the aquaculture zones. We're getting a lot more attention. than the wind meetings were you know, I think management policies for and you know, end of life or what happens to gear. things like that will also be important to make sure that Yeah, there is a plan that you know, it's established up front what happens I would start with. 
But it's such an interesting thing. I thought about that and in Louisiana. you know it with these other, you know, you kind of was the first time I've kind of heard it put this one in Louisiana like that. It's you know, just gonna be part of these other fires. Do you think how do you foresee that? that kind of does that facilitate actual offshore wind development that there's these other things going on and so they're just kind of like sure that's one that's one more or do you see that being kind of there's like a cumulative stressor and put you know, there's maybe a desire to be like no no more. We have to figure out these other issues first 
So at least with the currently because it is so far to the west. And again, I'm sure this is partly why that zone was selected. that is a way from a lot of I mean probably it's just the Much sparsely populated area of the state especially after the 2020-21 hurricanes. so, you know that area may have some more conflict but On the flip side. Yeah, except for really exclusion. This this fire doesn't seem to you know. For me fishing and in the water standpoint have a lot of negative 
last 
interactions. Because again, we already have a lot of the structures and a lot of this stuff in the water. So You know other areas of the world. I know they've had you know concerns with whale interactions or concerns with, you know fishing. Here that's just much less of an issue and again some of those other large things happening in the state. The ISS have come out saying that it will negatively impact. Populations so yeah, I think just a lot more focus is on those. Things that are, you know known to probably be detrimental. Now from the water, you know, I am 
the right negatively impact fishing or 
here. 
fish populations 
some of the other projects are known to are the is to show that it will Like the large freshwater sediment diversion. Will basically wipe out all of the oysters. negatively impact Brown shrimp other things in that entire Barataria region 
he 
So a lot of focus is on those. 
I see. 
and even I know Texas is concerned because you know a lot of the brown shrimp they catch come. You know out of those estuaries. that are going to be impacted so because there's some big projects like that going on. That are anticipated to have known negative impacts. The wind I think is just yeah, it seemed very much similar to oil and gas in which it's already there. besides excluding areas It's not you know, we've had that for years and there hasn't been large negative impacts. or at least direct negative impacts From you know migratory Birds things 
yeah. 
like that. You know, I know there are some discussions going on. But at least from a lot of coastal residents are a lot of the fishing industry, you know, some of them may also be birders, but that's just it's not their livelihood. So we're not hearing a lot of concerns. We're getting that from some of the environmental groups, but not so much from the direct residents in the area at least at this point. 
I say so the concern for the protected species is coming more. They feel like it's coming more for. I'm kind of outside from the environmental groups that are monitoring this and less from Louisiana stakeholders. largely being officials and 
Correct. 
interesting Yeah, that's really that's a really interesting way to frame it too. Is that oh sure wind. It's then the area it seems like it's been treated similar to oil and gas which we know is out there. So we kind of so there's a feeling of well, we kind of know, you know, maybe there's some negative but mostly we can fish them like it but then you know the diversion projects. We know we're gonna negatively impact you know certain key species, you know oysters and shrimp and so it's it's within that whole context and framework. 
And you're just getting a lot of the communities are still rebuilding from the 2020. I mean, basically no stretch of the coast was untouched between 2020 and 2021. And so You know, yeah, a lot of the communities are just still trying to rebuild. trying to figure out if they can keep down your Grand Isle. Can they even keep a population down there? Can they not does it become a you know vacation home only? location in the state And so again wind is just kind of that like okay somebody's working on it. It's coming. It's off to the West. And you know, we don't we do stuff. We don't get the know visual concerns that you get in a lot of like the east coast of oh, I don't want to see that because I mean you can't look offshore in any area of Louisiana and not see structures in the water. So it's just okay. It'll be a different structure. 
And nah, that's interesting. Yeah, so good. There's not much concern especially like compared to like New England and Oregon and elsewhere. 
Mm-hmm. 
That the additional Seascape and the nighttime Seascape is going to be considerably impacted in different. 
of the oil and gas structures. They're already, you know, even all the decommissioned ones. So that's the best my knowledge most these platforms wouldn't have people on them regularly except for maybe maintenance things like that. But obviously, they'll still need to be lit for navigation. Same with all of our oil and gas structures. You know, many of them are unmanned. They also have to be lit. They all have to be the navigation markers for both air traffic as well as water traffic. 
so there's already when you look at night, there's already 
Yes. 
tons of blinking red and white lights 
And so I think that's also you know, yes light, you know pollution definitely also impacts many animals below and you know above and below the water. But we already have it. So. I think it's you know, some More's probably not going to make that large of a difference. Compared to what's already there? 
is there is there a feeling similarly too for protected species? that that because there's already oil and gas that there's less concerned about you mentioned, you know Birds, you know, flying things birds and bats. Yes, and I think you mentioned whales before or other protected species, is that is that Is that sort of the sentiment that there's not there's less concern because there's already so much oil and gas infrastructure already out there. 
At least from in the water. And so that's yeah, like we just you know, we don't have you know, we're not a right whale migration route. So it's not that we don't have marine mammals, but it's just not quite the same. Organ, if they've been there they've already been interacting with this other infrastructure in the water. Yeah, I'm hearing more of the you know bird bath. So again because it's a moving thing those migration routes. and you know, I'm sure there are individuals across Louisiana that are concerned but it's coming out more from those that are kind of the environment. It's not I'm not really hearing that from the community level of being concerned. 
make sense That's it. I think we're got the most of the framing questions that I have here Plus. Plus my like tangential just questions of Interest. And I'll check back with Will. How do you look and 
Things are good on this end at this point. We usually open up and say if there's anything else that's on your mind. You haven't had a chance to kind of stick in here. This would be the time to add those things. Or if you feel like you've been comprehensive then that's that's alright as well. 
So I think part of it is just as a whole. Wind was really just not even talked about down here. Till about 12 months ago. I know we did National listening 
You know. 
sessions. Right coming. I might have somebody even in 2020. With Department of energy and all of the southeast was like this is not an issue. It's not here. They you know, obviously people were working on it. It was being discussed. We knew that Noah was looking at, you know ideal zones. But we weren't hearing that anyone was really interested and then suddenly it was a Oh, no where people are interested, you know? We were hearing from groups of the Northeast like well, you know this whole contingence here from Louisiana right now. This whole group from Texas is here. It was and I don't know that it was perfect. You know again, it was coming out of covid communications. We're just I don't know that they specifically weren't advertising it so much is it just wasn't making that line? So I don't actually think it was a conscious don't let anyone know this is happening so much is just nobody knew it was happening. And so I think there will be a lot more questions. And so I think there is going to be the need for a lot more information on just the process. What happened? What is going to happen? It just people haven't realized yet. Because it's just becoming known. So, I don't know specific concern, 
Yeah. 
just we are expecting to start seeing more. Hey, can you explain what's happening here? Can you explain what we expect? 
It it'll probably become a bigger issue as it gets more tangible. And and if you once metal starts getting in the water and and some of these development companies companies are a bit more present in the area, right? 
Mmm Yeah, and again, that's when we learned that you know, yes, some of these companies had started building vessels and equipment and things 
Mm-hmm. 
several years ago. And so again, it wasn't, you know wasn't top secret but I so I think there's gonna be a large need for information sharing. 
Great. 
that other areas I think would have already happened right now. If it was at this stage, you know before the lease is opened a lot of these kind of informational meetings kind of sharing of information. Would have already happened but nobody was asking the questions before so it just didn't. And again, I don't think it's gonna really change the impacts or change. pushback, I think it's just gonna be a lot of questions coming out of now what? 
is that that information sharing? for seeing that or the Quest for that being for kind of both public and private or 
probably but I think it's just so talking to others around the country that like I know many cigarette programs around the country at this stage. Would have already hosted a lot of or had been asked to host a lot of public meetings to host workshops. And I know Texas is starting to get a little bit of that but we so really happen and been talking to stakeholders. We bring enough. I like oh, yeah, there's that wind. Yeah, it just really hit the radar. For most people recently and so I think a lot of just again a lot of that information sharing that normally would have already happened hasn't happened yet. So these companies have operated elsewhere? You know or even the government the state. May not really be prepared big. Oh, okay. We really have to start back here not where you would normally be at. If that makes sense. 
And yeah interesting. 
Well, I think I think that's it for what we had. I'm gonna stop 
