So with that the first question, so how do you think offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico could affect ocean observation? It's very crude. 
Well, I can see that question meaning both directions so off sure win could impact ocean observations by the possibility of providing platforms of opportunity in addition to collecting purpose data that serves the offshore wind management the management of that industry in the Gulf of Mexico. So platforms of opportunity will be you know, the capacity that we can derive additional measurements whether they are needed for the industry or or not, but they're really fun for another stakeholder and our sector. But the industry offshore wind industry itself. I mean well require a number of of awareness and Environmental Studies and operational awareness. So we're expecting that that's going to be a great opportunity to for additional data. in the surroundings of the wind farms 
Awesome. So you really see it as a potential opportunity because data is needed and we can of course use it for other projects as well. 
Correct, correct. 
Anything else you can think about um, how often could affect ocean observing? 
Well, I mean ideally the opportunity to have sensors that collect data and real time. I mean, that's our preference. I did read a lot associations and chicus our perception is that That industry will provide that opportunity to to develop. Erations that will be relevant for them. But also for other purposes including monitoring change, whether it's caused by the industry itself, or it's just environmental climate change that we we can see so monitoring programs could be developed as part of this industry and that's something that we will be very interested in contributing and be part of the unsupporting that 
Awesome, and just to clarify did you mention platforms for you guys like for maybe you to put on sensors and then also the industry itself has to monitor certain things. Maybe two different. organizations Maybe adding monitoring 
Correct. Yeah, I mean the the industry for the purposes of their permitting and monitoring requirements will have to develop their own monitoring programs. Whether it's characterization at the beginning or operational throughout the life of deploy. But those observations will most likely be very relevant for us almost certain that all of them but could be at each opportunities for additional 
Yeah. 
information derived using those platforms the physical platform. And the capacity to visit them and access those platforms. 
Awesome. 
Can I guys can I ask you clarifying 
That's great. Yeah. 
question Brittany? Yeah, so when you talk about monitoring opportunities what specific types of sensors and phenomenon do you imagine being collected related to Offshore winds? And specifically do you see any differences between monitoring requirements and sensor requirements on wind turbines relative to oil and natural gas platforms? Or do you see them as similar? 
um the they could they're definitely similar to some degree will but I think the opportunities that offshore wind regulations could present once they are finalized. Throughout the Gulf of Mexico for example in other places. I think they've been operating on their specific regulations. I not sure that the Gulf of Mexico has completed. all the regulations needed to to develop our observations, but the offshore win platforms constitute more solid platforms according to what we've heard in the Gulf of Mexico that they will be platforms that will go all the way to the bottom and we'll provide the opportunity to develop a very sturdy a very solid platform to mount different sensors and observations. Typically the ones that we think are more relevant for other sectors and we'll be additional benefits that they can provide it's surface and Surface currents those are in addition to temperature which is a more simple and practical thing to collect and salinity. I mean definitely surface and subsurface currents are a lot of relevance. So you can definitely depending on the depth of that platform. I mean, you can understand the whole profile because you could have sensors all throughout the bottom as well. So that that it's an important thing for the renal associations collecting data and expanding not just to surface data to water column information. That's that's one aspect of this the other one is that Specifically for offshore win the general consensus, is that collecting data on on acoustic disturbances and noise and and potential disturbances for biological purposes. I mean, it's definitely something unique to this industry and that it will provide that opportunity that we just don't have that capacity right now. To a large extent. So that's that's another one that we feel like it's going to be really relevant. and really the third one which it's probably the first one but in terms of the characterization base of the projects that requires collecting vertical wind profiles in the air. It's something that we discussed with National Weather Service being super relevant for them because that data just does not exist. I mean, I mean that there is no wind profile data being collected in the Gulf of Mexico for any reasons. I mean by any AC or anybody unless you put one of these flyer boys purposely for characterizing one wind about it and climatology in the in the in the air and this is prime information for national award service. I mean if that information is collected on land, but it's not collecting in the ocean if we have that being collected in the ocean. I mean the models could be substantial benefit from that there and We collect data. I mean we call Ocean observing system. But of course meteorological data in the ocean. It's part of all those variables that they are essential for our networks. So that's pretty much something that we will be very interested as well. 
Thank you. I think this is some really great points. um So you touched on it, um on our next question where you said the characterization kind of before a platforms go in so now thinking about all those topics that you just mentioned, um how specifically do you think option went energy in both the operation and the construction phase could affect some of the things so kind of parsing out when and where those opportunities or concerns, May lie. 
Yeah. Well, I have to admit that. I don't think I'm an expert. Definitely. I'm not on the construction. additional complications and information needs that will benefit the Regulatory Agencies, but also environmentally is assessing impacts for management needs. But I might understand in is that. The offshore wind industry my perception is that the offshore in industry it's different from all and asking which is very large structures require additional. Operational Support from vessels to to several support vessels and different multiple tiers of installation cruise and equipments that everyone does something but at the end it's a much larger project for installation that it is for all of us. Yes, you're not drilling and there's not that risk at the installation, but definitely. I mean the equipments are much larger than typical all of us well and an operations depending what type of oil and gas platform as well, but we're not affiliate associations of values who are not to develop our own monitoring and kind of watch stuff the operation and We're interested on Gathering the data that it's going to serve the purposes of those agencies that will. Require to keep an eye and develop specific regulations. to ensure sustainable operations that also environmental friendly so we will need to discuss with them. What opportunities are at each stage. to be more specific I mean So far my perception in talking with some of my colleagues from other Regional associations in the Northeast and California. is that the observations have been on opportunities and also on the wheel of the the operator the company operating the platform. I'm sorry, the the generator. in sharing the data publicly But we hope that moving forward to the future, you know, we can participate in those conversations. We also with the Regulatory Agencies and identify, you know sets of observations and coming out of their own monitoring programs that we could benefit other sectors and Environmental Management needs as well. So it is not that. That we have already a list of things that we will like to get from for example what I mentioned about the vertical wind profile in the air. I mean, that's something that seems to be a no-brainer because that with that data we discussed with national work service how everyone is but We also just don't want to make it an opportunity thing. We think that moving forward with a new industry. I mean close to 200 years after all oil and gas development. We hope that that's we we could start from in in a much better way the relationship with the industry from the beginning. 
That's a really great point Thank you. And I think something I pulled away from that which was kind of like the stage specific observation. So kind of taking the opportunities in each stage of the process is a big. part of that Awesome. Well, thank you. So with that we're gonna move on to question three and this is the the biggest open-ended question of what else do you know, or you may think could change in the Gulf of Mexico as a result of offshore wind development? So this could be in Ocean observation or this could be completely off the wall. Just things you've heard. 
Yeah, well. There's three things that I I've been trying to follow. one is changes in the the eventic environment the one that it's either true venting or closer to to the bottom. changes caused by the Moors of the Stations of this platforms and the General on top I don't think we have any. Any good examples so finding off of Mexico, what will be what could be potential impacts to my knowledge? I would love to hear more about that. But that's something that I know that in the Northeast has been discussed in discussions for many years. For example, what could be the impact to scallop Fisheries? So I'm not sure. If there's us and similar question here for shrimp and other things in the Gulf of Mexico. That's one potential by local question that I have. The other one is about noise for sure. We care about springwells and at Rice Wells. At the same time a part of me says that could be too far too. The two areas of Interest might be too far away one from the other. I'm not sure that that's necessarily an issue for us here in the Gulf of Mexico. The third one is about potential by products of other in other energy industries that require when power generated such as a hydrogen that my also a survived product of hydrogen production release brine into the Gulf. So these are companies that will require to have their own wind generator, but to produce energy based on hydrogen and release the the Brine and again we talk about how relevant could be to start doing some of those models of this person of the brain. But I don't think anybody is doing it right now unless you guys know. probably I hope so so and before aspect is something that I Know it's highly controversial. But also highly relevant to me because of my background which is the birds in the actual. Um the actual toll on migratory population of trans Boundary Golf migrants. So that's also something that I keep a little bit of attention those conversations and very relevant to me. 
Yes, thank you so much. Having someone in your position, you know kind of hearing what their ear to the ground is on on the topics is really useful. Do you have any I don't say opinions on these but do you do you see where they may have issues like birds? I know it's a concern but is there anything specific that you want to mention about them? 
Yes, well. There is several approaches. The first one is definitely seasonal translates. It precisely in this area in Texas and Louisiana coming from echuca companies with us. So these are typical depository Birds really tiny birds all the way to hummingbirds like the Ruby throat hummingbird. I mean, this is the the alley where these animals really small animals will migrate. That I guess could be the main concern. a large large abundance of animals in a few days or a few weeks approaching the Gulf of Mexico really tired. That's really what most people think that happens and they don't have the capacity to evade these large generators. Um, the the other aspect is there's a huge also amount of birds that they on regular basis also seasonal but more regular basis uses that continental shelf area to porridge Colonial water Birds Pelicans included other Colonial whatever words as well. And the third one, it's there. There is this study from a guy that work from for back in the early 90s. Who spend a lot of time serving the platforms serving birds that he will be able to identify in the platforms and there's a huge report and there's totally a huge. I mean everything else could also be a user on personal offshore platform. I mean several miles of sure and And people we just don't know. I don't know if you guys have seen that report, but it's amazing of the diversity and the of animals of avian diversity that use the platforms. I mean, we just don't think of those owls or other animals being perching on a platform a migrating Indigo. So those three levels of Of complications, I think are what is my main concern? 
Yeah, very interesting, especially to talk about diversity. We have the air diversity. Then we have the you know, the underwater diversity that is potential. So very interesting Okay. 
I'm not too. I mean, I'm not to worry about Fisheries. I mean I I think maybe it's because of what I mentioned that I don't know what those models will tell us about venting impacts and and a noise but I think the Gulf of Mexico it's gonna be very different from the Northeast where they do. depend on some polite fish but most of the Fishers are actually bottom Fishers, but for us it's different. I mean, we have all kinds of really large like Fisheries here. And we do have also it's not percent groupers, but I'm not sure exactly what the impact that that level is. So that's what I'm saying that I'm not to worry about. Fisheries in the Gulf of Mexico, especially in the Louisiana Texas shell 
Perfect. We really appreciate that opinion. Thank you not opinion. In fact. Um, all right. So with that we're gonna go question four. This is one will was most excited about so it's from your perspective what management actions would be able to affect the relationships you mentioned today, and personally also I think what can ocean observing do to help those management actions 
right well lotion of serving is very it's very efficient. If you have a condition that you want to make sure and you put together the right technology with the right. Monitoring program on any space on time and so you have a really great design and you just really great technology. But this is also typically very expensive so we know how to do it. We don't we do it for radar as gliders voice? But it could be very expensive so. I hope that moving forward. boom and other Regulatory Agencies come up with our understanding that it will require an investment from both the industry and also the ANC in in identifying and measuring those those changes basically identifying stars and trying. or the things that we care for so it's it's not that simple we work with them and sometimes nobody wants to pay for these observations that can be these observation programs and networks can be quite expensive but Without the data management. It's it's just a speculation and your most likely younger estimating what could be happening and the things that you want to Develop an early understanding on what could happen. So the good news is that the renal associations of value such as Jesus in the Gulf of Mexico. I mean We have put a lot of thought into on what technology what kind of monitoring could be relevant for certain. measuring certain variables as I said before, I mean the suite of opportunities come from really real time data using latest technology and sensors or or high spatial resolution using satellites. So there's many options. But somebody needs to show interest. 
So I'm hearing that a big management objective would be investing in good data a reliable data. 
right 
Um, so kind of speaking to some of the topics you've mentioned. Um, what? Where should they invest their monitoring money? You know, what what kind of variables do you think could give the the best data for maybe their their budget? 
well As I said temperature and salinity are things that we know that they can be measured with really small Footprints and really affordable Networks. They can also be assessed via satellite. So the ones that we think that might be Also, very relevant for the industry but also other Industries and sectors are the currents which are required. more investment in technology, but also more expensive networks because those equipments require more more specific attention and maintenance as well. So that's one acoustic is the other one acoustic data a passive acoustic data to identify develop Cs and noise indicators. But also more specific identification of species using that space. seems to be something that you know, it goes or it has been with this industry since early and most people identified and will just see the opportunity in that the industry might see I mean hopefully industry might see the opportunity to also collect that data. We know that it's relevant for bone and basic. so those two are as I said and win vertical win at the ones that I will probably focus on. We do have something. 
last week 
Brittany, I don't know if you guys have heard about the essential ocean variables. Have you okay? 
But yeah. 
So that's our menu. 
partially 
That's kind of our Bible for the things that will be. All of those will be really good opportunities for us to develop an understanding of the gold ecosystem. 
Yeah, I think as previously mentioned the opportunity for death profiles of some of those. Those variables is I think maybe unique to Offshore wind. 
We do the profiles also in knowing as platforms using adcps that mounted at the top and they develop currents all the way to the bottom and vice versa from the bottom all the way to the top and in some cases. I think what it's what it's the opportunity with offshore wind is. If the Gulf of Mexico industry is going to develop this entire platforms from the surface all the way to the bottom. Be more at the bottom then. Anchor at the bottom. I'm sorry. The opportunities to attach other sensors in addition to the currents. Like temperature sensors temperature is very simple at the ball at the surface, but it's rarely we have bottom temperature. But these platforms could provide that opportunity to develop that understanding of water quality at the bottom as well. 
I was just working on a paper talking about bottom temperature and how much more difficult it is than Sea Service temperature. So as soon as you said death profile like yes, we need more bottom temperature observations. 
Yeah. 
So I concur with you on that one. Um, so with that we have finished all four of the structured questions, so I'll give will a chance to see if he wants to clarify anything for mental model. But after that is there just anything else you want to get off your chest put out into the world about your thoughts feelings ideas concerns about offshore wind benefits what you're excited for anything like that. 
I'll just say something that I think I mentioned at the beginning and question one maybe but the opportunities that to me the opportunities that this works both ways. That we could you know develop. networks of observations of of assets of observations that benefit them but also benefit other ocean uses and management needs as well. So that requires in many cases the permit of the owner or The Operators who have the least power. So that's one aspect that we would like to. work with them and also the opportunities that you know, the data that the regulations will have them to collect that you know. That becomes public if it's not part of their business essential data. and limits them their capacity in any way but So we're hoping to develop the affiliate with the industry. 
