Okay, so let's start out, you know, rather pretty Broad and kind of see where our conversation goes, but from a perspective of your expertise and Wetland ecology and restoration. How do you See the main changes to ecosystem services that might occur from offshore wind energy construction and operation. 
Yeah for women, I think the big concern I have around restoration is that in Louisiana? There's so much dependency on sediment resources that are quite limiting and in particular we have some deposits that are located offshore and there's going to be more and more pressure to use some of the other deposits in and around both in state waters. Also, maybe in federal waters for restoration efforts. I think that's a that's a big one. I see. 
And can talk a little bit more about that. I think I kind of missed it with the deposits were is that oil and gas depositor? 
No, they're actually good sand 
Good. 
deposit which Joel is an area off of kind of Grand Isle where there's a lot of materials borrowed from that for most patient projects as well. As a lot of the bear Island restoration that's happened in Louisiana. There are other deposits in and around that aren't quite so Sandy though that may be tapped in the future for restoration projects. 
Okay, so something I really oh, so 
so now I have to worry about where the department are themselves, but 
yeah. 
the corridor for those deposits to get them transporting to the coastal area for Restorations, whether they're being bars or pipelined over or something. to think about 
Okay, so these are basically sand to just literally just like taking sand and bringing them into. Rebuild the code because Louisiana's 
Yes. 
sinking right? 
Am I understand that right? And so and so the resources literally just those those sediments that are kind of moving over. is it generally pipeline or or kind of pulled up on a ship and then dropped over? 
It kind of depends on how far away the project is and where the deposit is and sometimes they will dredge it and Barge it over but a lot of times it's actually a pipeline where they're they're they have a pipeline going into the coast with that material. So there are maps available through Louisiana's Coastal protection and restoration Authority they have with the Becca and that is not big and that's really cool. They do have it's La start I think so. It's like the sediment databases if you want to see like what the where those are and what those look like. There might be helpful. 
Okay, I did kind of step back and it's not something. I've really thought about too much. And so the and then is the concern that basically offshore wind farms are gonna get in the way of of this sediment transport and these Pipelines 
Yes, I think I think that's part of the issue. Is that making sure you fight them in places that are away so you're not actually on the closets and that 
will 
they're there are clear corridors where you can still access those deposits and get them the shoreline. 
both that they're not on the deposits which would make it so that you can't the resources and available anymore. And then also allowing the corridor. For those I especially for a pipeline 
Yes. 
pipeline, I think an address they could probably go around although it'd be less efficient. Depending on the wise of the Wind 
Yeah. 
Farm. Okay, I appreciate you explaining all that. 
And they kind of go back to the elementary level now. I know you'll mentioned like Wetland ecology and nutrient sediment are there any impacts that you kind of foresee from offshore wind to to Wetland ecology? 
um overall I don't think luckily do the wetlands themselves. I think I'm more concerned about. You know, obviously there's the issue of the birds and kind of migration not only like, you know across the Gulf of Mexico, but perhaps laterally along the coastline could be an issue depending again where we're saying, I assume and I sorry you've asked this up front. When you're looking at this and thinking about it, are you thinking strictly of offshore wind and federal waters or is there like a potential to think about what could be in state waters too? So this could be separate issues. 
I I can take this one Holden. So generally speaking we're concerned with NOAA trust resources, generally. 
Okay. 
So that that includes seabirds in state waters, if you think that there will be some sort of impact on any sort of development. Because Birds even if they're on state waters and impact by state activities would be considered under the jurisdiction of Noah, and definitely. As we're trying to do like proactive science here. We want to be inclusive as possible. So I if you're if you're trying to 
Okay. 
decide where the scope of our questions why just tend to lean lean more broad than there. 
Sounds good. Sounds good. Yeah, because that definitely while the wind farms that could be farther offshore, I think. There are things that we can do to minimize bird impacts the ones that are closer and in-state Waters. Definitely not only do we have to think about the birds going across the gulf. But yeah moving laterally across the coast is is a big is a potentially big issue and I think there are bird researchers who are like tagging birds and seeing that there's a lot more lateral movement than we really recognized in the past and that is important in how these how these birds use the coastline and how they use these environments. 
Let's see Society can be really important in that distance to Coast could be. Could make a big difference on on basically those migration corridors how far they are proposed. 
Yeah. 
Is the cat is the concern more that closer into the coast. It's gonna be more impactful than and as you get further further from the coast. 
Yeah, that is nothing to be where 
provide 
I know are are leaning and as we've talked about it. Yeah the closer you get because farther off or the birds are fine pretty high in their migration pattern most the time but they're starting to get a little bit lower as they move into the coast if they're looking for that first place to land and so they're made to be a lot more potential for interaction between the birds and any offshore Wind Farm or new wind farm. As they come in. So we've had a lot of discussions because there is a push in Louisiana. There are some exploration of developing and state water. So we've had to have a lot of talks about what this might mean. and then add that like when you get closer to shore It can be. You might have more interactions with the bottlenose dolphin populations in the area. Whether that's the based on Estuary stock or that even the coastal stock might be something I don't think the offshore winds Farms themselves would impact it would be mostly the boat traffic after you're done construction. Anyway, it would be mostly the boat traffic that could impact those kinds of resources. 
So says that. he explained more about the boat traffic is that displaced book traffic because you have offshore winds there or book traffic 
I meant like traffic impacting like the marine mammals and that you have boat traffic going back and forth between the wind farms and potential ink in the incidence of strikes that could happen. and for the most part at least where play people are looking at offshore wind now there are a way from like the sperm whale and race well habitat, which is good. But that's something to you. We're learning. Unfortunately. We don't know a whole lot about the rice as well. And so the more we learn I think there is a big concern about you know, If any increase in both traffic, we do have increased the potential of impacts like strikes with those animals. 
That would be any impacts from the turbine upper construction and operation. 
There could be some noise disturbance 
themselves 
as they drive the pilings and there have been people have noted some concerns about like even like a vibration sound of the turbines, but I think there are technologies that are being developed to minimize that again like the the soundscape is something that is it can be a kind of complicated in the Gulf of Mexico because there is so much activity already through oil and gas and shipping that it's pretty noisy. I imagine for Marie mammals as it currently is so it seems like most people are more concerned about the driving as they construct. Piling since we have to have we have to have like, you know rooted pilings in the Gulf. 
So it's the construction phase that's the more that's would be more the concern for. 
From the direction firms. Yeah. 
The piling itself rather than the Dodge of the operation as they're spinning and vibrate. 
Yeah, people have brought it up. I don't I don't think it's I think it's yeah, the construction phase is going to be the big concern there. 
here so If you mentioned settlement. potential to to you know, like be build on sediment resources and block those corridors protected species in terms of Birds whales dolphins Any any other potential impacts to? to the ecology or ecosystem services 
um, those are the big ones for me. I do think there's some question about what happens in the benthic and then think communities with these with these wind farms how much it changes the existing Community how important that might be overall there have been a few studies and some other locations that do see some changes there that they're it seems very Place specific rather than have some like broad conclusions. We can draw from that. I think that's Kind of where it is. Um, I do wonder I do Wonder a little bit about how offshore wind farms might impact the development of Gulf hypoxia as well if it changes enough of like currents and circulation to in maybe it helps break things up a little bit or maybe it'll that I think that's a question. I have no idea what the answer could be but a little bit 
yeah. So there might be in effect. 
good. 
So there might be in effect, but we don't. But we don't know which direction that might affect could be that it could increase or decrease could worsen or improve hypoxia. with the mixing Can you go back to the the benthic communities and ask like how the construction and operation would would change would affect the benthic communities in the rentals? 
Know yeah the benefit the way it could affect it is like depending on basically where the sediment is being deposited. These benefit communities are kind of very A regulated and sensitive to sediment deposition and and any kind of change in that could just change it could just change the structure of the community. Maybe you have poly Heat starting to dominate over other organisms, but I think I think it'd be a very localized affected don't think it'll be a huge and long reaching but I think you could just change exactly like where certain organisms Thrive basically because of the sediment deposition patterns that may exist around the structures. 
Okay, and so and you're thinking of very much in terms of it sounds like a like sediment deposition bottom-up processes. 
Yeah. 
The small things that bring in the all the the higher trophic levels. 
One I want to check back with will because we've gone a like usually the question order is kind of almost like list. the different um, you know things that will be impacted the college and ecosystem services and social systems and then talk about like the how the what those effects are and it's kind of like you you kind of gone like went through the questions almost for each one who said instead one and then you like jumped right into like okay. Here's here's what we imagine there the effects are and so it's like we almost went through like question one two three for for each one. I want to I want to check with will because it's 
the audit 
I was gonna say there your systems 
different millennial 
oriented person, aren't you? 
Yeah. 
It actually makes my life easy. It makes Holden's life harder to go through the process from but for me on the modeling side of things all of the connections and everything. You said has been very linear and logical so I'm doing okay over here Holden. 
I should also say I have done like I 
Yeah. 
done like to Circuit conceptual modeling before so I kind of like think through like, okay, what's good? 
what what? 
I'm looking like 
And you want to know it's funny throughout this process. It's very clear on my side of things who has done conceptual modeling before and who is not when you do these interviews because the way that you answer the questions are very different depending on whether or not you actually know what's going on on my screen and or whether it's completely new to you. 
Yeah. Yeah I can imagine I imagine. 
We've kind of almost we've kind of started with you know areas of expertise and then we kind of moving out but we want to specifically kind of touch on the question of kind of going back through these of areas out, you know. To allow you to potentially speculate to to for impacts that might be out. You know that you see that might be outside your area of expertise but something that you've you know thought about in terms of offshore wind. 
Um do think a little bit about there. There's been some conversations thus far with the commercial fisheries, and I think that's always going to be something that's gonna be brought up whether that's the obviously the shrimpers are probably been the most involved in this thus far but I do wonder and don't know how much like the mid Hayden industry has engaged. There is an effort. By some to push them farther offshore which then could start to kind of interfere or like could have overlapping areas with offshore wind. Yeah, it's one of those, you know in in the Gulf of Mexico particularly with the a lot of the commercial Fishers are they're pretty used to having to deal with certain, you know, exclusion areas or having to work around existing infrastructure. So there's some benefit to that I think at the end of the day they are. As I talked to my colleagues who work in you know, the Northeast Atlantic they're like the the fisherman aren't screaming yet and it's like no they they're kind of used to think. Oh and it and I you think and I don't this has really come up around offshore wind, but something to always kind of be the kind of have to think about is there's when it comes to the communities in and around these regions and there's a lot of distress in processes like this and that they will be left out or they will be ignored or that companies who have had a history of negatively impacting polluting communities will kind of green wash the work that they do with offshore wind and say think kind of that continued engagement on all friends with those communities is really important overall. which doesn't really fit into a conceptual model, but like I mean I don't know how. That was but your area for me in general the offshore wind lesser the carbon capture question. It gets really messy with the local communities. But I think there is interest in how that works. And and again this is when it comes to Offshore wind like how that power is used ultimately for the most part. My understanding is because of the remoteness of our Coast for the most part it probably will be used for industry rather than communities, but there's a lot of there's a lot of work that needs to be done to even be ready to like accept that power in into most of the places along the coast. We have existing transmission lines. And we have existing corridors because of oil and gas but they can't actually be used for my understanding. Anyways, they can't actually be used for offshore wind for the most tour. They'd be retrofitted. But the corridors at least exist. 
Okay, so the corridors is just allowing like we can run pipelines this way. 
Yeah, yeah. 
But sounds like a corridor for oil and gas is not going to be with you need or at least the corridors open, but the infrastructure is going to be different. 
Right. Yeah, it sounds like they probably use the existing corridors, but they'll have to put in their own infrastructure. They want people to use the existing infrastructure as it currently is. And then trying to bring that bring that on Shore into our like power grid. Is very complicated? And I say that and nothing about I saw one presentation about it one time. I was like, oh that seems hard. I'm glad that's not my job. 
I want to go back to that. I don't know how well will work this into his model either but like and you mentioned kind of local distrust. In in assume, that's kind of for potentialy. the industry to kid talk more about the industry. And then also I'm matching. There's probably distrust in government. 
Yeah, definitely. So, you know the distrust and particularly in Louisiana oil and gas and there's a lot of distrust around oil and gas in that there's a lot of pipelines that have been built throughout the coast that a lot of communities have felt the impact of and feel that those companies are responsible for some of the land Los. That they see in and around their communities. And so there's kind of a distrust for what those companies and many some of them aren't oil and gas and you know companies coming in on offshore wind, but some of them could be they're certainly been a lot of interest from oil and gas to broaden their portfolio. So I think there's always going to be a little level of Suspicion there and like, you know is offshore wind actually going to be beneficial to the community or is it just, you know, good for the oil and gas industry or allows them to broaden their portfolio. And yeah, there is always gonna there's very much in Louisiana a suspicion and distress of the federal government. So oftentimes for very legitimate reasons, but it's it's it just is gonna make it makes things difficult to work very closely with the community. You have to work with them over a period of time to really get them to trust and buy into what you're saying. And that's not something that the federal government usually can invest the time and energy to kind of build those relationships. It's hard. It's hard thing to do. 
so so there are is there sentiment and because there's something I know it's a little about is also evidence that oil and gas industry is responsible for Louisiana land loss. 
There have been some there's been some lawsuits that I tried to that at the fee of oil and gas. It's a really the answer is really complicated. And you know, there's like 14,000 miles of canals that have been dug throughout Louisiana's coast. And so they've certainly contributed to land lost or certain degree how much that is of the overall land loss. I don't think we have good numbers on people have have. hypothesize what those numbers could be but yeah, I mean, it's definitely there's been a series of lawsuits and then Our state government has tried to quash those lawsuits. So it's kind of gone back and forth. 
I guess is there is there any potential for offshore wind that can contribute to that I guess two parts both, you know both mechanistically to contribute to land loss and then also perception. That it could potentially. 
I think um 
contribute 
I I don't let's see it kind of depends on again so much of the offshore wind comes down to the siding issue and where things are. I do think that offshore wind can probably get away without causing more land loss. I think there's so many existing corridors in places that they don't have to build their own which makes it easy the perception. I don't I'm not sure. I'm not sure how the perception is going to shake out and we certainly I I don't know. I don't think it will. I don't think it will, you know, the bigger barrier I run into unit talk to people about offshore when our is sort of like the logistical concerns about how that's actually gonna work in the Gulf of Mexico because we need because of our conditions. We do have lower wind conditions and other locations we have but then hurricanes which he like placement and design of a turbine that can actually withstand. and these these huge swings in the amount of wind like how you actually practically deal with that 
well, are we still within our our bounds? Okay. 
definitely the yeah, it's a challenge right to figure out all of the parts Associated environmental system and find out how they can. Fit into our conceptual model, but that's very much within the balance what we're trying to do with our project. So, I think I think it's all relevant. 
Okay. 
It Matt. 
Do you think this efforts unity and on the like Community side of things and I've heard this from a few places and talk to some of the community colleges. There are a lot of potential opportunities and offshore win in the industry itself for for communities and there are some people that recognize that particularly because we do Louisiana does have like this history always talk about Louisiana because that's where I live but And they're they're a little bit more forgottenboard without Sherwin. You know that there is so much potential to kind of retrofit the existing programs that we have within our community colleges to train the work force for the for offshore wind, which I think Is kind of an advantage. in Louisiana, and think about 
so that so yeah, I don't yeah want to that's you know Circle back to that because we're not only you know. Thinking about like negative impacts. 
right 
That's also you know. clearly like energy production as Is kind of the stated one, but you know, really trying to think about the potential negative impacts to think about but then also benefits and so, you know job skilled labor is 
Yeah. 
potential. 
Definitely and I mean even the power that could potentially be supplied even if it doesn't get into the communities itself, even if it is used for industry along the coast. Industry is in Louisiana are a big greenhouse gas can contributor and so like anything you can diminish there is is helpful. Um, the federal places the federal wind energy areas are more like Calcasieu, but there's been a lot of interest by places like port fourchon to kind of serve as a as a like I don't know if it's sort of a case not a case study, but one 
* 
of my thinking like a they're interested in having a small offshore Wind Farm where we can test things out and actually see can they use the power can they can they get um, can they get power from offshore winds ultimately? Yeah affiliate thing. I said, why can't I find I can't find the word. I know. I mean, I think they're all like offshore wind has so much potential. We do talk about the negatives because we have to think about like what are the things one of the things you have to worry about but I think overall I'm sure wind in the golf is a positive thing and people that I know the people I talk to we acknowledge that there are risks associated with it and there are potential impacts that we think we can offset. We think we can address. at the end of the day we All sort of agree that it is. The right thing to do. It is a thing that is needed to move forward. And maybe if this was 20 years ago, we could be a little bit more particular and quibble about the details a little bit more. But yeah where we are now we gotta we got to figure out how to how to diversify our energy sources 
So yeah. So just kind of recapping so far on the last part what we'll talk about the last question as kind of potential management actions. but I kind of want to recap some of the some of the kind of impacts That been brought up so in positive impacts from you know from jobs and Workforce. And then of course, the biggest one is the purpose themselves of bringing an energy lowering greenhouse gas emissions. like concerns over over a sediment deposits protected species for birds whales dolphins Potential issues of soundscapes, although that's complicated. Hypoxia. Is kind of something unknown but it's you know to such an issue, Louisiana already and so concern. the commercial Fisheries what you mentioned there's for the shrimpers and menhaden You know something I had a note on too that I want it is because you mentioned that somewhat to push. the menhaden fleet further offshore the time I imagine that's pointing to kind of You know stakeholder conflict. Can you talk? A little bit more about that. 
Yeah, I I'm not the I'm not the best in the history of the menhaden fishery but there's definitely there's been a push and recent years and it seems like it's kind of reaching ahead right now to force that industry to move farther offshore in part because of running into conflicts with recreational fisherman or the fact that there's been Not quite they're not like fish kills, but there's been like holes in Hayden nuts. So you have like thousands upon thousands of dead fish washing up on like Grand Isle on occasion because of that and so there's there's a lot of sort of from like the recreational From when I see mostly point of view to like push them further offshore so that they'll they'll have less impact on the kind of recreational parts of our coastline. That's very big because that's basically my social knowledge. 
Through this by catch on you know 
Yeah. 
recreational economically important. species like sea trout and red drum and 
Mm-hmm. One thing I didn't mention that you did just remind me of is. it's also think about like the migration of like sea turtles across the Gulf of Mexico and potential impacts there particularly with the Kemps Ridley since they mostly nest in Texas like 90% of them nest in Texas and moving. You know, they move back and forth across the Gulf of Mexico, the the wind farm itself. I think would have very very little impact on that. But again the boat traffic increase because of the wind farm could increase like the incidence of strikes between whales or the turtles and it's all right, my brain jumps around I can't I don't think You'll just hear things. I'll be late. Let me tell you. 
you're lining kind of right? Right for well. I think that's most of the things we talked about except, you know, we also talked about. potential You know that. That there's awareness of potential or the concerns about the communities and the region the stress in the process. There's already conflicts with the oil and gas industry and distress for federal government and Big Industry. 
Yeah hasn't been huge yet for Oscar witness that theoretical thing for most people still that they're just starting to kind of Rumble about it and think about it. So it hasn't reached. It hasn't reached a fever pitch or anything, but it's something that I think we're we're looking at and trying to keep an ear out for what's what people are thinking. One other thing that occurred to me to some is around the recreational fishermen and you know, there's been a long kind of a historical thing or a recreational fishermen used old oil and gas. Wells and good fish around that and there is some I think enter I've heard some interest from recreational fishermen. Is that something that could potentially happen with optional wind farms is something that you could actually would you see a benefit would it act like these like Reef the three effect around the the wind Platforms in the same way. It does around the oil and gas and would those be available then for people to fish around? That's my random. It was my but in my Randomness I think. 
Well, that's a lot and you know, the last question is asking about from a perspective what management actions could be able to affect the relationships. So we mentioned and we already gave so much so we can kind of walk back through them or you know, like Check back with well or within we get my notes, but I know you've mentioned. several times exciting 
Yeah. 
It's a key one. I know you mentioned kind of some of these but may I think maybe starting with that of kind of pulling out? Pulling that string of what what sighting could could potentially help and then also after you know going back through some of these kind of thinking about me how management actions could affect both improve 
Yeah. 
both the bat, you know, the positives and then also mitigate some of the negatives. 
Mm-hmm. Yeah, when it comes to the society, you know, I think it is just like looking for places where there's less commercial fishing activity aren't major corridors for things like the races whale I know along for the the federal process there are suggestions about you know, staying 20 nautical miles off the coastline. So you're not impacting based on Estuary and Coastal stocks of dolphins. And then when it comes to the birds, the sightings complicated, unfortunately, the Gulf Mexico is the Mississippi Flyway and it is a major. transport route of birds or photograph for birds and so I think they're it's less about citing unless you're talking about offshore federal waters versus statewatters, but it is more about potential technology to make it so the birds can see the the platforms better the turbines better and also perhaps management actions like having radar to detect when you because the migration kind of happens in a fairly punctuated period so if you can see that migration happening, maybe you can shut down the turbines for you know a week period and then you just miss all those birds. And there's like little tweaks. I think that you can you can do and serve those types of management actions. Around like the whales looking for technology so you don't have like any rubbing sounds like or you minimize the rubbing sounds as much as possible of the actual wind turbine. So that doesn't add to the noise Escape there. There's also been for management actions along boat traffic. There's been a lot of suggestions to like keeping things like 10 knots or below which I don't think should be a year-round thing. I think that's putting a huge burden on people who are going back that takes a long time then to move back and forth. But if we can think about like if there's like seasonal times that we need to be sensitive to maybe you have it in the periods rather than year-round. 
the for the boat traffic doesn't even mentioned that you know, multiple several times for dolphins. Whales Turtles 
And I think that one only the fact that and there is sort of a perception that's happening about offshore when there's a narrative being told on the East Coast about you know, whales washing up and and offshore wind that I think is far more a story of Wales and interactions with boats, but that's kind of sewing it some distress there and I think you have to deal with that in the community and maybe it's being more stringent on the front end when it comes to vessel speeds, but then kind of having this adaptive Management in place where you can back off of that once you learn seasonally things that you might you know, who's moving where what's happening in any given moment? 
Mm-hmm. 
Yeah, I think. Yeah, I think that kind of covers, you know, you know those cover sounds like the sighting. Because let's just complicated take you mentioned technology. Increases which is exactly management, but I guess management can encourage technology or requires potential choir. 
yeah, I mean, I think it confer like 
potential 
if you're yeah, if you're looking for ways to mitigate impacts, I think that can certainly push people to develop the technology to to decrease that impact 
and that and then adaptive management particularly, you know, you mentioned multiple ways that you know book traffic and vessel speed potentially use to mitigate the 
Yeah, those are the big ones that jump out at me. 
I think they kind of covers like covers are kind of. Four major areas. Will do you have how's your model look? 
And I'm feeling pretty good about it. There's definitely comprehensive that. It makes my life easier. When you interview somebody that has sort of this inherent knowledge of systems and dips there and things like that. So it was good really good. Unless Respondent, there's anything on your mind that you don't feel like you had a chance to get to I think we're pretty good. 

