Start kind of broadly and you know from here from your standpoint. For BOEM and you know that where you stand a Confluence of you know, science and research policy and program management. What are you seeing as some of the key ecosystem services that are going to be impacted by offshore wind development and the Gulf of Mexico and I kind of clarify this for the ecosystem Services both kind of benefits that could come from all for wind and also negative impacts and then also, For the offshore wind development construction operation and potentially ultimate decommissioning. 
Hmm interesting question. Okay, so specifically focusing 
I kind of needed what topic but yeah, just yeah, I want you to you know, consider the ecosystem services. 
ecosystem services in with that we're using the traditional ecosystem Services definition thinking of what's provided whether it be biological ecological services, but as well as human need, okay. 
Yeah, you can use a personal definition but a broad definition of ecosystem in terms of both socio environmental and socio-cultural resources. 
Okay. Thanks. Yeah, that's not the direction. I was I was expecting so that's good. Keep me on my toes ecosystem Services the Effects of offshore wind that's something we're still trying to explore we have less. I would say. confidence that we know the answers then do perhaps my my Noah colleagues or state colleagues and others simply because we still don't know exactly what form the the distribution or density of activities offshore wind may take so so for instance The offshore wind can be used to power to supply power to State grids. Right, which of course are not state-owned. They can be used to support offshore hydrolysis. So hydrogen production or onshore, so you're getting into your green or blue hydrogen or they could be used to support other other activities and each of those. Could potentially have a different. Need which would drive the footprint of the development meaning the size the number of turbines the platforms Associated technology. So that being said If there's something small like we currently have one lease, right and it's a in. We don't know what the company is going to propose. If it's a few test turbines, well, then essentially it would have no impact. right, whereas if if you saw something that had, you know, let's say a hundred and fifty turbines and they're one nautical mile spacing then I would say well the it could be a mix of positive and adverse effects especially based on the location where we have the The current wind energy areas approved those were cited using and costs as site suitability model. 
pretty cool 
But we also know that the data that went into it had some inherent bias because of information gaps or or lack of information and of course the sources of those data so even that is an imperfect model. Okay, that's that's background. Let me bring it back on and answer your question. What do we think would happen? I think you would see. Typically the same effects that you've seen in some of the old Coastal oil and gas development. You would have some fishermen in some Fisheries, please, you know, Charter fishermen recreational fisherman anyone targeting reef fish because they do tend to be it makes targeting those reef fish a lot easier around the structures and we know that there is both production and and aggregation type effect. However that also Means that you you likely would see some impacts to settling of larvae. Movement and settlement of invasive species whether it be invasive corals or lionfish and so forth. You would have potential impacts to other Fisheries or fishermen using mobile gears. So that's an adverse as opposed to the positive earlier. 
Here, I think this is at the heart of what we're wanting. And so yeah, the Yeah, you can. Yeah, let's let's keep going down this I think will is excited by it? And I also want to kind of broaden it to to kind of think a you know, correct me if I'm wrong well, but I think we want to think kind of longer term long-term too of just like Um, you know, you know, it could be within the next couple of years. We're not sure what we do with the lease is but I think the idea of what we're working on for the integrated ecosystem assessment is thinking like what if we have lots of wind turbines and we're not sure the time frame of this but With the idea of some of the road what are the indicators that are going to be useful for that the ultimate? Yeah. 
are you? 
At least as mapped in the past. Are not best suited to wind power generation for like residential user business use right? There are other activities to which it may be more suited the best suited areas are actually further west. but the Respondentets are further east and so this Continuum doesn't really make sense economically and that so you have to take that into consideration when someone comes to me and says, yeah, you have one least but we're planning for 12 leases each with a hundred turbines. I say well why you know, let's let's focus on what we do know and in that is where the Respondentets where their people house climate changing how we use this region and where the people are and what do we expect that to look like in the future and that may actually inform these other things a little better because we have limited resources time money and people to do the research and focus on the issues identify as use and try to resolve them. So tied in with this we also see carbon sequestration, right? So there's a big push because of the law and the tax credits there to get that going. Well if you have A need for sand and you have a need for oil and gas and you have a need for carbon sequestration and offshore wind not to mention all the other uses such as Freight and you know Imports and Fisheries and so forth on the OCS and let's go back to them Marine spatial planning and say that's that's a whole lot of conflicts. Let's let's try to resolve the ones we know are going to happen first and use that as a model for helping resolve the other ones. Okay. So that's the policy question that alone can help inform where we expect to see activities. So as I said, the central to central western golf is probably where you're going to find at the best suitability for having wind that you can use to generate the power and a Respondentet for it whether it be a chemical Respondentet or a residential or a power grid Respondentet, right so you can constrain your thinking to that area. and you have that in our call area and and the The Wiz that's likely. Oh, there's also some areas identified there for carbon sequestration so that and going further west and we need to talk to the geologists about that. What is the the feasibility doing carbon sequestration? I don't know yet. We're still waiting on the proposed Rule and just to clue you in a little bit. You likely have to build all new infrastructure. So even though people talk about Reuse it's not really realistic that I know of. So again, it's all new infrastructure big footprint onshore offshore. Very expensive. Is it going to be worthwhile? I don't know. All of these are concerns though for people because you end up with pilot projects or initial projects. So it's a concern for people and if you retool or if you're local government retools to support a new industry. What does that mean to me? You know, it means my taxes could go up. Am I Really Gonna See the benefit of new jobs? Am I just gonna see Prime real estate get turned over. Am I going to have an effect on my lifestyle my fishing my visuals my my cultural heritage those are all valid questions and those are all things that I think we are trying to explore one of the things I wrestle with in a socioeconomic sense and my staff probably hate me for it is we can't I can't have two people or three people service the L5 states in the Gulf of Mexico, right? So we need to better identify. How do you how do you identify an activity? First offshore that is likely to have an onshore or Coastal. impact to an EJ Community or other community and then how do I help identify those communities by definition if I say, I'm in EJ Community I am but you still have to find them right in people still have to understand that 
Thank you. 
you're asking that question. So we first have to identify which activity offshore is likely to have an effect. That would cause that I self-identification and then engage with them and then likely we have to get the information from them. To an agency that can actually act on it that has jurisdiction over their concern because even a connected activity or or indirect effect. If it's unsure, it's outside of our jurisdiction. And that's that's one of those things that we wrestle with and and we really need. Pulling it back to Offshore wind. We really need a partnership among. Noah Corps of Engineers the states foam and Bessie of people that can actually collect The information distill the information pass it on and take ownership of addressing the responsibilities so far what we typically see is more of a an agency pointing at another one. I'll use EPA as an example saying hey y'all got to fix this because we have jurisdiction over the overarching. Let's say climate and air quality, but we don't have authority to make the change here in your state, right and and this this the bureau or the bureaucratic structure of our government is good for some things. But in other ways it makes it really tough. 
what's it I think this point of view is super useful for us because in from where you say you're able to think about like offshore wind development and the context of potential competition. for other Marine Resources and services Which I think is a really important for perspective for us to capture how this fits in with the oil and gas Maritime mentioned. carbon sequestration, that's something I'm a little bit unfamiliar with and so like, you know, maybe ask you to kind of broaden that and and then also could potential any other competitions for you mentioned Fisheries as well for kind of the whole Myriad of Gulf of Mexico Marine Resources that offer a wind could might compete with both or you know, again benefit or negatively impact. 
no, yeah, it's it's interesting because all right. So you want carbon sequestration first that's been going on. There's Norway's got a an offshore. Project that's been going on for years. You can look at that too for an example. But at least in the US, it's been primarily on Shore and there we don't yet have regulations for offshore carbon sequestration, which is the capture or recovery of CO2 and injecting it into a geologic formation, which if done properly you you monitor the advance of the the plume Edge and you want to make sure it doesn't come back to the surface migration, right? And if it stays there long enough mineralization can occur. There that's it in the nutshell. That's the biologist trying to give you a Layman's description of carbon sequestration. Most likely in the Gulf of Mexico. It would be using depleted oil gas reservoirs. To inject into right but the the 
will 
But the trouble with that is you have Legacy Wells and Legacy infrastructure, right? They could potentially leak every time you poke a hole in the ground. It's potentially a leak. So can you actually sequester carbon and for how long and what does it take to monitor it and so forth. So that's you know additional surveys. It's additionally equipment it's onshore, you know compression stations. It's a lot over a long period of time and that means that people are using those areas sand recovery right near Nearshore. We do have OCS sand resources, but mostly the economic recovery for like beach nourishment and stuff is limited to I think 100 or 200 feet water depth will stop not my area. So those kind of generally straddle that that state federal water boundary? Then fishing right over my years I've seen in in your your folks. John will probably would say the same thing seen changes in how Fisheries are addressed and association with oil and gas so you think about it for for a long time there was there still is a lot of uncertainty over how to monitor and account for the the proportion of species on these artificial structures. There used to be quite a few more structures in the water than there are now right. It's down substantially from where where it was at its peak, but they because of that the different species if you look at Deep Water you have people that if they run green stick or they're chasing tuna, they kind of like the deep water structures because it has turned around right the pelagic long liners. Not so keen on it. You know same thing strippers don't like it. But you know Charter fishermen do so. It's it's really it's always a situation of How do you weight the different concerns? How do you balance the need and that really isn't up to one agency to decide. I mean, it's just not and it's because it's not the way our laws are written. It makes it makes it really difficult. For everyone, right? I mean for you guys too. I'm acknowledging you're in a tough spot. The Atlantic is a good example because there you don't have oil and gas but you still see a ton of conflicts between different Fisheries or different uses of the of the water and DOD right and and trying to have access so that's probably a good analog to try to understand these these competing interests. 
yeah, that's a perspective's really useful I I 
Um, do you? do you have The there's an underlying understanding that or assumption when you look at statutes and policy to assume that. first off if it got put into law we assume that That's what the public wants right because they're elected officials in Congress. Proposed it past it and became law the Executive Branch is responsible for promulgating regulations that Implement those laws. the older law is typically considered to establish a standard the newer law. If it overlaps right in some jurisdiction or responsibilities is typically assumed that Congress knew about the older law. And so if there's a conflict you would defer to the newer law. Right it you see because they they knew law ABC was in place. And so if there's a conflict in XYZ, well, they must have assumed that XYZ would take precedence right? Because it came later so that also plays a role because in reality there's a there's sometimes a lack of clarity and well What was the context what was their actual objective and the agencies, aren't we don't do that? But it's not our job. Our job is to actually do what's written in as the mission and So there's another source of differences to consider when you start looking at with a lack of marine spatial planning that we can actually control it. It happens because of different interests in areas and we're just supposed to kind of manage that chaos. 
Here see that. Something kind of want to come back to that. You mentioned that I want to make sure that we we capture here because I know you've done a lot of work in again this some of this I think can be just kind of synthesize of lessons that you've learned about it, but you know like Now these offshore activities are going to have the impacts that they're going to have on the coastal communities, especially in the light in the work that you've done for environmental justice. Again, I want to come back to those potential benefits and negatives of offshore wind development in the Gulf. And how do you see that as potentially supporting, you know? environmental justice and you know benefiting these communities as well as the concerns that we should maybe be thinking about before steel gets in the water. 
Wow. All right tough question. Um So one thing that the agency has been doing and I as policy I'm not involved in but I'm observing it right is the there's Community benefit agreements or there's different types of work agreements that can be associated with an offshore wind lease that traditionally hasn't been written into an oil and gas lease. So some of that right that that change in the thinking and the implementation may be helpful to some of those communities but realistically When when I look at these these the offshore work? It's easier to say well, where are these parts being manufactured? Okay, so if it's in the interior some of it's on the coast but still in a relatively confined area, right? Where are so that's a benefit right? You look into the jobs. Maybe maybe for some people to have that maintenance of these facilities would have You know benefits associated with it some of the adverse potentially adverse impacts would be if you had to expand a port. So let's say you had increasing noise or increasing activity or further degradation of coastal habitats, that could be an adverse impact a transmission line or a pipeline coming ashore what you know, whether it be for hydrogen. Or for electricity those could have potential adverse impacts. So those are the types of things that initially, you know port expansion job locations presence types and you know transmission or transportation of products. Those are the things that really stand out to me as key factors for us to assess and say is there going to be an impact? Gale has a lot to do with it because of its small scale. Why would you build a facility here? Unless you're already doing building a facility to make them and transport stuff to another area which we do right? So there's there's piles and jackets that are being. You know built or vessels that are being built taken elsewhere, but I'm talking about for a local project. the other part to consider is the the long-term effects, right? So that comes back to the environmental Mitigation Of impacts to avians and and Fisheries and fish, but I think that honestly That is less of a concern because we have a lot of experience with putting. Projects into the water and monitoring and managing those and I the avians knew the avian portion is new, but we do know that there's a concern with avian Collision on other platforms offshore still need there's always more to investigate and research um, what changes is some of The maintenance associated with wind turbines. So if if the scale increased much beyond what we currently foresee. then you would have to ask about disposal of the the parts that are not that you can't just Maintain so think of the blades, right? I don't know where that would go. I don't know what type of process would be in place for it yet. These are things that we have to investigate and learn more of so we can assess the impacts. decommissioning the I think so decommissioning meaning generally removal of facilities and restoring the habitat to its original condition in a in a basin. Of course that's been heavily used for a long time. So when you talk about like getting a baseline to me, it's that's a different definition. You're talking about it current a baseline of current impacting factors or current conditions, right? Because we don't know what the Baseline. is and it's I think it's important to make that clear because you have to Define it or people with different perspectives are going to understand it differently. So restoring it back to the the original condition, you know pre-construction. Okay, I mean this that it's a it's an industry if that happens. You know, you're gonna have to pull vessels in or maybe they're still there. I don't know what it's going to look like in 2025 years. But we already use we already have an industry for decommissioning other offshore steel structures with it be monopiles or or jackets. So I'm assuming that it those impacts would look much the same as they do now decommissioning activities are pretty steady, right? It's It's a Small industry. There's not a lot of companies that are involved in it. So I just don't see that changing much. 
You know, oh something I want to. Tease out too. Is that 
Don't tease me. 
Okay teasing here. Is that because you've worked on this a lot is that? How should we be thinking about this? Being different from oil and gas infrastructure and the Gulf of Mexico you've mentioned before that, you know clearly there's the above ground. Above water is going to be different we have spinning blades and so he 
Yeah. Yeah, I'm really glad yes. 
mentioned a couple about avian impacts, but I want to also dig into that what what other things could be potentially lean on knowing that they're similar to oil and gas you mentioned Fisheries. We already mentioned how you expect them to be kind of similar for you know refresh will be probably 
the king 
benefits other fish so we can think about that but are there other differences that we should be thinking about? 
Yeah, so for talking bottom founded structures the key differences going to be the regularity or density of those structures compared with oil and gas oil gas is out. It's not a the placement of the structures is not as regular as what you'd expect accepting some of the near shore environment, right? There are some places like coming out of fushon, you know, if everyone knows the hole in the wall, right? I mean there are some areas where you have a lot of structures together and that may be that may give us a better indication. Well, what's it like to have this one nautical mile spacing but as you go further offshore that spacing for all gas is different. So I think that's that's the key difference. We do have some if not analogs at least some things that are similar that we can extrapolate from and better understand those effects for bottom-founded. Wind development if it occurs with the intensity that that people are expecting or some people expect right if it happens. In small scale then again where it's at. That's a different game. The similarities to me are the artificial substrate is similar. the biota reaction settlement Behavior around those substrates would be similar, right? The Technologies used to emplace them and maintain them would be similar. You know, the vessel traffic associated with would be similar the sound introduction to the marine environment would be similar. So most of those things I think. I think a lot of it is is very well understood in going to be quite similar to Oil and Gas. Development right as far as the structures and just talking about the physical aspect right now. But that that other one. If you see an uptick and development in Leasing and and development, that's that's something we really have to explore and we have to look closely at examples say, okay. Well what what is How does that affect? Other uses and in the environment, right? Yeah, I'll leave it there. 
is you know some of the 
Well, I mean interject you notice I 
I guess yeah. Yeah go. 
about Autumn founded we don't yet have technology. That's that's really Deployable for commercial floating turbines. And that would also be beyond the depth of of what we currently have in the call area too. So that's why I left that off the table. I wasn't just ignoring it. 
you were just focusing on bottom founded structures. I want to ask about a couple of these kind of engineering things that I just a bit of super curious about. but I just know so little about them and just curious what what your thoughts on the Respondent because I know there's been just some discussions about like electromagnetic produced wind wakes from spending turbines and also the heat from transmission cables. are these something that you know much about or think about or are they put you know, I know these are the I want to be careful here because I don't want to put these things into your mouth that you haven't said, but I want to ask them about it or is it are these things we just know too little about or doing or do we know enough about them? But aren't concerned. 
Home, those are leading questions. I'm going to tell you to go back and work on those questions. 
I messed this up. 
That's like that politician looking for an answer not I know there you can bring that part of this discussion. So you said EMF wind wakes and 
He transmitted from cables. 
oh, that's right. Transmission cable heat. Okay, I can it can speak a little bit 
Yeah. 
to two of those. not because I Fully know the issues, but because I've had staff look at it and give me wonderful little reports and I'm gonna tell you from an engineering point of view and and the design of layout and and building a wind farm. You'll definitely want to ask those questions of Kate. When you have her on the line because she's been more intimately involved. So Me higher level her much more involved at the project level and then we have smes that help handle the the rest of it. So all right real quick wind wakes. I know nothing about there. I'll have I'll have an avian biologist. Ask questions about that EMF. So there's been a lot of research on EMF. There's there are a couple aspects that are of Interest. Right? And those are the but you have to look at the context of it at no point. Do we ever say there's an issue that we ignore or we just don't care about right. So I want to get that on the records. You understand that. If we if if someone comes with with a question, we're going to look at it. We're going to consider it. We may reach a determination based on available information that there is no impact or no effect, but we do look at it closely. Okay, so in EMF if you look at EMF in a single cable You don't really see any effect, right? You don't. It doesn't matter if it's crab Lobster fish. They don't seem to have a problem Crossing it going around it. Viewing it anything whatever. And there's there's some interesting studies that are in both the Pacific and in the Atlantic that address this. the bigger question for us is if you have a network of cables, okay, whether both suspended because they go from the turbine down to the sea floor or on the seafloor itself, and then you have you know, the power generation goes collected you have converted. Or maybe depending on how far off you're sure you are. You don't convert it. It goes on Shore if you have multiple cables at what point could the EMF affect navigation? For a species in the area, right? So you have to think now you're thinking spatially where are these located? You know. Pick a species. It's in the water. Probably going to be something that's going to be juvenile or possibly an adult returning to a specific location. Could you? Impact their ability to navigate for a period of time in that specific area. Yes. right and potentially But again, it goes back to scale. It goes back to the species the use that habitat. And so there's a lot to dig into where we need to know. Okay, let's talk about the location. Let's talk about the structure the design and what species are present. How are these in the area then Then determine is there or is there not likely to be an effect? And what would that affect look like and would it have an actual impact on a biologically important Behavior such as nesting or you know return to the ocean or something like that? So yeah, we do we do consider those things transmission cable heat. That's interesting. There's Well, the other thing on EMF depends on where your cables are how deep they are. Are they buried that also comes into play the heat right? It's good heat differential. What? How much heat are we talking? Is it going to be enough to heat up the water column? No, you have a lot of turnover not really an issue. So that one we've looked at more and said no. There's just you we don't see a development on the scale that we would think or anticipate there being an impact and and don't forget. You also have heat transmission associated with Pipelines. You know you and there's other cables that are out the water. So the bigger concern for me would be if you use that when to produce hydrogen offshore, then you would have a lot of heat in the form of heated water. Or brine being discharged from offshore hydrolysis. That's a bigger concern for us and bears further investigation because we could see a more significant potentially more significant localized impact to the habitats and and species in the vicinity. 
that's something I had not thought about this new to me. That's really interesting. yeah, I really appreciate you, you know you taking these again, these are you know kind of being captured as my point of view of what kind of academic research questions with the ideas of What should how should we use this to? to drive research and research priorities and so being able to tap into, you know knowledge you have so 
when you look at driving research and research priorities. so a lot of a lot of our information needs in our research priorities are driven 
used. 
when you look at driving research and research priorities. So a lot of a lot of our information needs in our research priorities are driven by our consultations, right? But in the process we try to keep our Consulting. Parties agencies informed to understand that we're again in a regulatory. role and not a science role so sometimes You know when you when you come up with research priorities like yes, you need to understand it for the Basin. Well, we're a small agency with small budget. We can't justify it if you have a question about a specific area. Sure, we can we can see that in in research it it may not fulfill your needs because it's driving our needs so when you look at things from a research point of view, yeah, I keep bringing up scale right? I will say I one of my big concerns is I think that some agencies have a bigger staff to handle wind in the Gulf of Mexico than we do. And we get questions from a lot of different offices and I'm going to the same people I have literally the same people working on oil of gas and Marine minerals and other like sorry. It's it's the same 10 people and you heard the list of things we work on or the same 20 people if we expand it. so that's one of my concerns is like hey, let's not lose sight of What is likely and what is reasonably foreseeable and what are the biggest issues for us to Address given the known activities and the known risks to habitats and species and multiple use of the Basin, right? Don't let don't let something be a distraction and pull 80% of your work away from actually doing good making a difference for the rest. 
Yeah. I want to make sure we capture some of that because you know, that's something that will. Trying to get is you know. you know thinking about potential management actions that But we want to be. You know considering at this time. and you mentioned a lot like you said scale and the collaboration of the different agencies given that there's current in for structure issues of that bones permitting agency know as a resource management agencies, then their state and local agency say she talks and about that. Are there other management actions? that you would this is probably a huge topic. But for us at this time, you know kind of for this conceptual modeling are there other management actions that we that are you that you're thinking about that we should be capturing. 
to yeah, I I think that one thing this is probably the biggest use that you can take away from a science and management point of view is we don't have an active. working group that involves Resource and Regulatory Agencies as well as Academia and the public on a regular basis to talk about issues like you have the sure you have the Fisheries Council that's very specific, but I'm talking. More of the what's our information need. How do we how do we get the information? We're not making decisions. We're just looking for the information and developing answers for questions. And how do we set those priorities? Jointly as professionals that are all interested in serving the public and if to me if we could find a way to convene a small group that just occasionally meets and talks about those issues that would that would be a huge benefit to management and decision makers. 
like that but well, how are we looking because I know we're getting kind of close to our hour. 
I mean the model's fantastic Respondent you've been very comprehensive, which I appreciate. I don't I don't think I have any 
Sure. 
islands that need clarifying right now. So usually at this point. We kind of open up the floor to anything else that you might have rattling around in your head that. You've been thinking about or you think is relevant to our research questions that you haven't had space to kind of add in up to this point. 
Um, no you really you really need the other layers. That's why I went back and asked about who all we could involve because you're going to get some disagreement between my perspectives and the and the two layers below me, right the only way you're gonna 
Yep. 
The only way you're going to resolve that is by exploring and having follow-up questions. And I don't think I can add anything at this point until you have those follow-up questions because Um, yeah, I mean that's that's how the model works, right. 
Yeah, yeah. All right at this point, I'm gonna turn 
