All right. So delving right into offshore wind wearing that expertise hat for a moment of Economic Development Trends. What do you think are some of the main ecosystem services or benefits that might be provided by the Gulf of Mexico that potentially will be changed with the Advent of offshore wind. 
Um, so the the largest being that there's of course a strong economic base with energy production both on and offshore for Louisiana. However, those historically been in hydrocarbons which carry their own negative externalities for both people and place. So with that offer when his an opportunity from just that Economic Development perspective to make sure jobs are carried over towards these future cleaner resilient applications and that carries over again the opportunity for this particularly uniquely skilled Workforce with a lot of concentration in those fields to have a line of sight towards work in the future and then of course those applications caring less emissions with them and supporting some of our Coastal and health challenges. 
nice So how thinking about that chain you started down this line of thinking but thinking about that chain of effects how specifically do you think that offshore wind energy operation and/or construction might affect that Economic Development, so devil in the detail type question. 
Yeah, of course. So I think at the Forefront it's definitely pushing perceptions of where work can be obviously like our oiling gas workers are set all over the world to like carry on their, you know, get on the vessels that are based out of here carry that expertise there and I think in the immediate sense, we're seeing some of the Lines of business growth for each of these offshore energy suppliers by virtue of them engaging the East Coast supply chain and project portfolio. And this is predominantly been with vessel operators having a lot of specialized vessels down here that can't be built quickly or affordably and then Jones act limiting where they can come from two meaning to be domestic. So we're on that short list there. So you see a lot of our offer Mariner work beyond that though. We're also seeing some increased lines of service for our foundation designers and Fabricators those who can develop these complex deal components and those are export opportunities from Louisiana to not only the East Coast but also even European projects which also demonstrates that Louisiana skills and expertise is competitive where you know wind is a bit more globally advanced. then in the medium term, we'd obviously like our program and work from an economic development perspective is trying to help increase companies who see that opportunity meaning of course large and well established and maybe a bit more flexible or ambitious Business Development firms, like in Edison shoest naturally fit into the offshore wind sector what the supply chain database project with rwe did was identify 125 firms across operations constructions maintenance and devex with applicable Services. Meaning there's a huge base of Industry with the right sort of Education awareness and Business Development support can similarly engage these other markets and that's the medium term because we know that the Gulf of Mexico's obviously a little bit behind timeline-wise relevant to its first next what energy area auctions and it also faces the technology constraints of wind resource availability and sediment design. So that's why that's sort of that. We're not only helping other projects but also maximizing our engagement with golf elements being that sort of longer run opportunity understanding we're not necessarily on the 2030 
Gotcha. Yeah that makes a lot of sense. 
timeline like everyone else for those 
So you mentioned the actual labor 
developments. 
force in the area and it's interplay with hydrocarbons. Could you delve into that a little bit more? Are they the same people and how is that? playing out 
Well, it's actually a very important note that it's about carrying over an incumbent Workforce with you know. Few or apps and alternatives to use their existing skill set. Which again, right it implies some 
Gotcha. 
It implies some maybe expenses towards their Education and Training in the pathway. It took them to specialize this way. Of course, if they have years plus of work work that they're using to sustain their family like they're gonna be planting around that so I think that extension of an incumbent Workforce and helping them see, you know that they could either continue an oil gas if you both or maybe make more of a full transition towards servicing on our offshore wind that's important, but relevant to new people there's extreme misalignment with the population and race and ethnic breakdown of Louisiana's total population. Then that is currently employed by the energy Workforce and that's not just offshore oil and gas production, but also the onshore sides of things so, you know refineries other end uses Just so from the economic development perspective in the work we're doing I think it is very important that it is acknowledged that it's not just incumbent because if we just focused on that it would carry over these inequities in the workforce and making sure that like some of the early Workforce Development by that we meet the training and education programmings are supporting diversity, but then all so that there's some particular attention on how re-engaging in existing Workforce towards these applications can be really supportive of a more Equitable energy transition or Evolution here and energy Workforce. 
That makes a lot of sense good to hear you thinking about Equity. That's I think new ish to us. At least in the workforce side of things you had mentioned very quickly the carbon balance type of things that wind obviously. Plays a different role in global carbon then hydrocarbons does but thinking locally to the Gulf. What ecosystem services are what are people thinking about in terms of golf ecology and climate change? 
So the the states first climate action plan in 2020 did not create an enforceable offshore wind Target, but what it did was connect the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions reduced Reliance on traditional energy sources by virtue of its connection to our significant, you know, Coastal land loss right that the connecting the dots between whether you Erase it as Under the Umbrella of climate change or just the singular point of greenhouse gases and warming resulting in a rising ocean and like your sea levels and then for reduced living Coastline, what it did do is no matter where you found that spectrum of belief or connection to a greater Global phenomena. It did connect that to greenhouse gas emissions and Renewables obviously being a predominant driver for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, especially from like point source of generation. So that was really powerful in making sure that offshore wind Goal, the gigawatt goal aside as part of that portfolio of things that connects that gas reduction to being able to preserve our Coastal, you know populations Coastal land and really more so it pointedly said that there's billions of dollars in unprecedented set of you know projects at the coastline sediment diversions rate, you know building Etc and that work is sort of set to be in vain if we don't do anything that really affects the source of the issue as well. So that don't if you even believe in like everything else we're doing and not the greenhouse gas. Well this point also sort of circles back to making sure those dollars are well spent and those goals are achieved. So I think that's like the real big thing and then of course that translates to our tribal fish tribe our native tribes, especially those on the coastline predominantly being historic fisherman small, you know, Mom and Pop fishing operations that are you know, even with the coastal projects quite frankly facing Existential threat to how they currently live in sustain off of the ecology. That's we can't get into that tangent. Right but I think that it's sort of where we touch upon where it's like even aside from Renewables. There are some conflicts about the approaches of the coastal restoration projects in that they will in the short run effect near near Sharia ecology. Then of course relevant to ultra wind development and less of the hydrocarbon element of it. The number one thing that has been identified through discouraging convenings that we've participated in so far is that Beyond like at the high level the avian species Flyway right that we're a big part of basically not our residing these species, but those who certainly are coming here for a good time at a long time or on route to a more Global and long-term destination during the winter cut through here and that's a obviously harder to evidence by species level and location Etc. And also that when you get to smaller birds and bats who also are part of that or also reside here a lot of what has historically been used for data collection and planning here. So just tagging. Sorry. Y'all are frozen. Can you still hear me? 
Yeah, you 
Oh. 
Yeah. 
think we're back. 
I was talking with small birds and 
Yeah good. 
bats and you lose me there perfect. So just the tagging and tracking that's historically been used here. Whether that's for the sake of oil and gas projects other, you know environmental planning or otherwise doesn't really work whether that's just from a efficacy or cost feasibility perspective. It's just not gonna be the best way to plan around wind turbines popping up and as we know there are some ways to cite around those impacts mitigate them, you know, the weather the black tip on the one blade is up, you know effective or not, you know towards mitigation is really hard to even pick between those two because we there's so much variance and so much uncertainty on those species and fly away, so Certainly something that I think is of critical importance. Not only you know, the engos that are leading the you know, awareness of these challenges, you know, National Wildlife federations Gulf of Mexico program in particular, but when we interface with the state and particularly Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries and Coastal management, that's not only going to be leading this, you know, unique state water permitting for Nearshore projects, but just in general anything that touches on shore They are extremely Keen to make sure that the planning and understanding of this is increased on the front end of them developing this permitting scheme. So IE that is definitely point of concern number one relevant to the ecology. 
nice You laid out the steps did not process really. Well. I appreciate that. So this is the point where we're gonna set your expertise hat aside for a while and ask you what you've heard in terms of effects or what do people in your community talk about when they talk about potential effects of offshore wind to the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem. 
Yes, so I think I sort of crossed off that like species number one thing there. 
Yeah. 
So I think then second and thankfully one that is well represented in planning thus far by bone this obviously our Southern shrimping Alliance and other shrimping Associated Industries and associations or companies wanting to make sure that again more from the sighting versus mitigation perspective that they're you know, most traveled or most prominent, you know, shrimping areas or considered where these are located and so we've definitely heard that's a lot actually tomorrow that they're having a convening and boom is speaking at that. So we'll be listening in to make sure I'm continuing to hear the latest. I do know that the shrimping Alliance For example was very I'm not gonna speak on their behalf, but seemed pleased or properly engaged with this first auction. However, boom exercise it's first programmatic environmental assessment for the whole 15 planned what energy areas Which sort of brings next set straight to proposed sale notice it in in the ssa's view that reduced a step in the like site consideration and planning process as we know between PSN and FSN blocks can be removed from lease areas or when Ed plan when energy areas rather before they become auctionable lease areas Etc. But they felt that having the two through that full course was sort of undercut through the EA. So that's something that I've heard and I'm not directly part of we don't have a lot of other industry input around is that the type of efficiencies we need to achieve while preserving, you know, mitigation or site planning interests and best practices is that actually sort of sacrificing some of those good practices for efficiency. No opinion there, especially from my view, but definitely very keen to being on that work in group and hearing that Express directly from SSA that they were sort of, you know, they're off by that shifting to like communities here something that I think is a really important. Education is full scope of footprint of a project meaning of course all 
hmm 
carry beyond the turbines and offshore substation on tour substation and infrastructure and that's something we heard from legislators. And these Western East Coastal parishes that are you know, considered adjacent to these projects where they definitely want to make sure relevant to their constituents. There's an understanding of like where again like right away is will occur where this might increase transmission. They're not aware of and again where that ensure substations ultimately going to be Will especially about a coastal point of Interest. So that's like another one where you know, it's in a later stage of development and planning for developers. So it's hard for them to like honestly and comprehensively talk about that full footprint at this kind of stage. But on the other hand, it is sort of restraining some of the buy-in from our legislators and state leaders because they don't feel like they have the full picture of what they're saying is like a good project for their constituency or you know region of service. So that's a sort of new one that materialized during wind weak conversations actually and you know 
right 
one we're encouraging developers to come up with some good education points and maybe even like examples in the east coast projects that are now, you know first Power underway with so that's another one that I think sort of gets like lost and then naturally we're in a cons, you know, a very conservative state with some conservative views on like the Energy Mix good and bad or just what it should be. Um also have sort of digested some of you know, the What they've used malignancies or a negative externalities of offshore wind based off, you know some East Coast campaigns that have been refuted such as whale impacts. Of course, we know that there can't be what it will impact with bad planning those especially on the vessel operations front and construction, you know driving front. However, you know, the the campaigns about all them dying is sort of this irony where that's not really a concern that's placed on the oil and gas industry per se Here or at least with the same level of scrutiny, but became a very easy or early. Well that's happening up here. Do we want to kill our whales kind of thing? So all this is like I think There's we even during wind week had outbursts that said that the the blades can spin off and just spin all the way back to the coast and chop up a town. I think we know that like that's a little bit more pointedly refutable. But like there's a spectrum of concern and like obviously our stance is like all should be addressed all should be addressed with courtesy and understanding that we all come from like different backgrounds and understanding of how this works but I would say, you know with that there's a very significant variability on like the perspective of that because some people are like commercial fishermen are like we've had some who are like look we love fishing around platforms to us as just another platform to fish around give us the rules. We'll do it all good to us. And then other Coastal people who are like yeah. Yeah, like we're okay with the oil and gas platform. We don't really need more offshore. And yeah, so that's sort of like some of the top ones that come to mind relevant some variability of community interest, but I would say a lot really more than anything. 
That makes a lot of sense you hit a lot on a lot of topics there. But I think that's good. 
understand this is a way to protect the coast in place that a lot of 
So 
people reside in an operate out of 
Thinking about a slightly different part of the process. Although you did touch on this from your perspective what management actions would be able to affect the relationships or potential effects that we talked about and I recognize it's a large question. 
Yes, so, um relevant to the avian species stuff that I think has been pointedly about State planning. So making sure that there's a very robust permitting scheme and like I'm talking more about the state water and Nearshore projects a lot of the recommendations being like a lot of the environmental groups industry associations of other co-users Etc are very have seen the right things and right planning Securities Etc out of the bone process. So they'd like to see as much as that carried down as possible to the extent that obviously we don't benefit from federally mandated entry agency coordination and this and that but I think that's something that is doable and I think the states taking that call really seriously whereas like Operating agreements or the equivalent of lease rates have been afforded and the same way. There are a number of steps and reasons why that in a poem in federal process does not guarantee a project certainty making sure that's still applies here with the right studies and steps, but that's why again, you know, the understanding of or data collection for those avian species is really important because it sort of becomes this chicken of the egg on how to approach permitting and planning there. I think for Coastal footprint again that becomes like education and I think the state with its legislative authorization and funding of both the overarching state master plan as well as a specific supply chain Workforce study the former being more relevant to this can really help answer some questions fund education work that Articulates full full scope of foot print further connects offshore wind impact on greenhouse gas reduction and then transitively Coastal, you know land loss support or mitigation obviously connecting that with such a metaphenomena is pretty tough. But nonetheless, I think a lot of the education that'll be necessary for the community relevant to a number of that those variable points of concern and interest true or false all being real in there, you know, their perception of this industry as it takes off being, you know resource appropriately. I will say right like the Gino wind Alliance and then Southeast wind coalitions, Louisiana program is the extent of like offshore wind advocacy and education. Programming and Industry engagement being developed and of course were small and mighty I think is Willem can attest relevant to start getting on the personal information to everyone relevant to the transcript here. But unless like we could pull it off but the east coast states by being so much closer together benefiting from federally mandated Regional planning and coordination benefits from a bit more strength in numbers on a lot of education and Industry engagement points, and I would say this is one of the biggest things we call out to relevant to policy and what can be managed better is The Gulf of Mexico is a unique novel and its own Coastline for development. And of course requires its own personalization and level of detail in its planning that can't just be copy and paste from New England North Atlantic New York by Etc planning that said, I think not even just speaking of ever a program but the ecosystem has found problems with our exclusion from a lot of federally mandated Regional planning from transmission benefits to again ecosystem planning a big part of nwf's intent with wind week was kicking off a gulf of Mexico's Regional Sciences collaborative, which is similarly born a lot of benefits of the East Coast. So it's not all just on the White House, but I think in the face of local content restrictions that really limit our ability to export expertise and carrying and Company Workforce to again transmission being a topic. We're the furthest behind in and would benefit even just by learning 
Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. 
if not engaging right is and its own Coastline for development. The Gulf of Mexico is a unique novel And of course requires its own That are far away from us. 
I've also heard the cabling issue 
That offer hasn't been made the request certainly has and I think that's like beyond what the state can 
from the East Coast. 
That's a huge shortcoming on the federal government making sure the 
It's a bit of an aside but 
Gulf of Mexico can plan as robustly and effectively as possible in 
It's getting around. 
partnership with our peer States. Yeah. 
Those are all of our four questions. So those were big and we hit on a lot of topics now. Is there anything else rattling around in your head that we haven't circled back to? That you'd like to get on the record. 
Um, I think I would add that the and I think this definitely was in engaged well, um during the environmental Roundtable but I did bring up that when the races whale restrictions came out. It was sort of jumped on quickly by oil and gas industry groups where those operations are a bit more approximate or plan to be in that area and then the offshore win Community here. So those is floating areas that are you know decades plus away from being touched by Usher wind potentially barring pace of innovation and I think it was really important to make sure that wasn't lost on like a point of Interest education, etc. For offshore wind understanding how you know pushing off or not properly tackling that issue has affected East Coast development in public perception of wind. So, I think it's something that it's just like, you know, I didn't touch upon because it's something to learn about and understand better. But we saw how that was leveraged or rather discussed relevant to director Clines, you know and a presentation to the house committee and you know, obviously something we don't want to lose sight of so, I think that's just something you know, we're learning about two and I don't want it to be kicked off issue relevant to the full 
but 
scope of potential impacts here. And then I think another thing is there's like floating around relevant to repurposing of leases by virtue of let's say a new federal Administration coming in that historically was very restrictive or hindering offshore wind development and that potentially creating an incentive for developers to Pivot to oil and gas or ccus for what was an offshore wind leaves. I'll say that again without citing any representative from the agency early discussions offline with poem indicated that there's not much of a legal grounding or possibility for that especially for ccus being something that hasn't been robustly planned around period for the agency, but even it just being talked about and you know being that presumed as an option on the table for the community is something that again is really important. And then tough when we're you know. Positing wind is something as a portfolio of energy additions versus transitions relevant to the dialogue that is successful with political mobilization here. So that's one that again is a bit like untouched but I see being a longer term challenge that would benefit from like more immediate thought education and understanding around before we get to a true or Crossroads. We're actually seeing that with the Nearshore development. Cajun wind is in conflict with some planned officer ccus project that's really by virtue of the lose language in these operating agreements in the state sort of setting themself up for something like that. But again, it's indicative that those 
hmm 
types of challenges conflicts new types of co-user you're all into energy production offshore maybe closer than further away. 
Yeah, that makes sense. 
So let's do some other land. Yeah thoughts there in my head on my conflicts or potential points of interest in education that I wanted to make sure y'all had in your toolkit. 
Yeah, totally I'm thinking about timeline too is important. We know you weren't specifically asking about that but there's a different things become more important at different points in time. So I know will is trying to get that into the model. With that. I just wanted to make sure you mentioned an rwe report about The various firms that might be contributing does will have a copy of that. And if not, can we get it? 
I'm gonna drop the link in the group chat here. 
Perfect. 
It's a public pool and also, um since 
That would be great. Thank you. 
it's released in December. We've had more companies who were, you know, not found in our, you know, first search and recruitment say they're part of this so it'll be updated in the next week or two with some companies. 
Oh wow. 
The whole point is is alive tools. You can Circle back to it as needed. 
That's great. 
what I will send to y'all and if 
very cool 
there's any way there is an opportunity to confirm it would only be used for the purpose of this study the Private version of the data is a bit more robust than what we publicly advertise such as Company addresses contacts. We don't want to become over soliciting or directly towards that 
Sure. 
that said for the purpose of this study. Like what you would benefit from is getting a better Geographic spread of the companies and things like that. So if you can confirm it can be kept 
right 
to the purpose of this study and not distributed especially for business development purposes. I would be happy and comfortable to share that with y'all. 
Yeah, as we get closer to figuring out what our metrics are going to be related to the you know, the 
And a last note that actually is the the one of those two studies. I'd referred to being authorized and 
socioeconomic indicators 
funded legislatively is underway, which is that supply chain of Workforce study with you know, an exodus Consulting was the contractor 
that that may be something that we 
selected for that. So all this is they're actually we've similarly given them that data to make sure it's reflective of their 
might be interested in mining. 
findings and they they've honestly improved a number of just like the accuracy of the toy I'd say, so I 
So I'll 
understand that that will also be 
right 
publicly available when published and 
we get closer. 
we're in the working group for that something that's going to be a Q2 
I 
deliverable so might not be the best for the timing of your deliverable underway, but I do want to add that I'll just keep in mind to flip that to y'all when I see it published because again it'll sort of if for the same purpose you might use our database. It'll probably add some granularity on a number of metrics there. 
great. 
very cool 
Fantastic I had to really short follow-ups related to what I'm seeing on your mental map here one is something that's been coming up a little bit. In terms of management policy responses and this is the idea of you know, sort of Outreach advocacy and greater education of the communities that are potentially going to be impacted by Astro wind energy development. I think a lot of the stakeholders that we've talked to have spoken broadly about this. And I'd be curious to hear who you think is the player that's responsible for conducting that education Outreach and who should be coordinating, you know, sort of the the messaging related to this industry's development in your region. 
Yes, so that's tough because again where we don't benefit from bring the numbers is that I think rightfully a lot of the developers with the appropriate federal and state level support should be because I think it's important for it to come from the company to be accountable for what they say to the impacts to be to be true to feel that the line of communication and education is the direct source and not being obfuscated colored up or whatever way in between that said obviously it's a little bit tough for that here with having a singular Federal developer to carry out who's already being a first mover for a very complicated market for a number of reasons, which is something that I think should be appreciated acknowledged from the economic development View. And then also the other developers being state water with very different business cases as what's been perceived as sort of pre-developers. They don't have a track record of operating things that they build so who is the actual owner of that farm and it's full life cycle. It complicates that as well as like I've noticed an intent to distance. What is um, I want to yeah double the like lens of like security and privacy to this point, but like letting you in on that just that the the federal developers and state water developers aren't necessarily like United on a number of Education points because the federal project views itself to be in a much more stable tried and true and defensible path forward and development with clear points of community engagement and education. Whereas the state projects are a bit more of an Uncharted Wild West and don't yet have that permitting scheme to point to meaning, you know, the federal project rightfully like could collaborate more on like Community Education and this and that but what they're telling the community is quite frankly very different by virtue of where their projects are and how they're regulated permitted and approved. So all this is like I think in a long term it'd be very important to make sure that there's accountability for developers to engages communities more robustly and that's unfortunately just Complicated by virtue of again those Project Dynamics and you know short list of active players in the space right now and that's why I think the economic development organization such as genoenge, you know, when program is such an Open Table sort of important because it's collecting a lot of these different perspectives and making sure that there's you know, it's disseminated as best as possible and as directly as you know, it's articulated by virtue of the developer the planning agencies the ngos ETC but you know, that's probably not sustainable relevant to you know, again developers needing to take a bit more accountability and responsibility for all of this so short answer developers, but I think right now a lot of the people who really want to see this take off and see a lot of the positive, you know, potential impacts for it or sort of coming together to make sure that's not just left on them. 
fantastic, I really appreciate that. Last question I have does not fit perfectly into the the sort of infrastructure the the foundational questions for our project, but it's something that's come up. In our interviews a little bit that we're kind of playing with to try to see if we can fit in somewhere. I don't know exactly how but this is the idea of the social and political differences between the states of Louisiana and Texas. We are obviously a federal entity. We're considering Offshore wind energy development in the Gulf of Mexico more from the the geographic Regional perspective rather than the state level perspective. However, it's it's become impossible to kind of ignore some of these underlying differences between, Louisiana and, Texas As you know, the federal leases have played out now obviously as state level development is playing out. I'd love to get your abbreviated take on what the key differences between Louisiana and Texas are and why? We're seeing one state sort of embrace this industry and the other sort of push it away. 
Well, the non-political answer is just right like you Texas has a competitive renewed nationally leading renewable Market by virtue of onshore wind and solar Louisiana does not even with a this is not a citable number but a triple or quadrupling incapacity over the last five years of solar in the state doesn't even bring it close to the online capacity of Texas. So as we know a big challenge of offshore when anywhere is LC a week comparative to other in exist, you know incumbent really generation sources and that's a challenge that I think is exacerbated for the Texas Market by virtue of ours we also Have low cost power but not in renewable. So squared away with the need or Embrace to transition diversify reduce ghg. That's a little bit more relevant to them than us because it's a lot of just gas competition here. So that's the market answer then the political and Regulatory perspectives will become just the iso stuff. So Texas has a little bit more. Authority and ability to just be a bit more selective by virtue of how the Earth had a separated and then like regulated bottom down and you know, really like the wind projects were turned away by virtue of Entre permitting versus any of that but nonetheless like the market differences that said Louisiana is the only Coastal myso State pursuing offshore wind. So we're also sort of a singular mover but then we don't really get to dictate as much because we're part of a much larger ISO that isn't really like getting a lot of push to playing around offshore wind aside from us and we're not seeing a lot of really aggressive pushing from our largest utility players or lpsc to do so because they don't know enough about it yet. So those are some big ones and then like again politically like offshore when it's just benefited from a lot of bipartisan. And if not Republican leading support wears in Texas, it was you know, mischaracterized in a number of ways rather. Let's just say characterize negatively in a number of ways that really led up to the auction. I think it's important to note that although it's not as Stated intention the next four wind energy areas identified by bone are the furthest towards Louisiana of the original 15 and even further away from where people expected which was the strongest resources down on the cape those new phases number of DOD concerns as well. But nonetheless, like I think it is still relevant that after the outcomes of that auction after those stated market and political and Regulatory challenges as they you know interact with one another the wind opportunities are further moving towards us. But yeah, I think it is actually really important to mention that like, Louisiana like we initiated the intergovernmental task force, like relevant to like true Ambitions and like pushing this forward. It's been Louisiana that said like again aside from like Co use or challenges and DOD challenges like getting Mississippi, Alabama and not Atlantic Florida or just let's say Florida to the table obviously would provide some benefits. But again, there's some big just like Probably not relevant to what we're seeing with the North Atlantic and things that are based down there from a DOD perspective. But marketwise would obviously be helpful and it's a little Louisiana definitely doesn't benefit from being this like isolated State down here both regionally and ISO wise moving northward to like be pushing for this type of renewable resource.  
