Yeah, let's let's jump into that what you're saying what what you're doing right now and then the work you're expecting to be doing and offshore 
Sure. 
wind and What while you're talking about that I'd like to you know, kind of think about both these as the impact of offshore wind development. So that includes construction and operation of of offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico and also the potential benefit but then also the potential negatives to drawbacks that could come from it as well. 
Yeah, okay, so I'll start now get into that. So we operate on the mindset. We're all about holistic resumes. And for sure. It's it's how do we how do we build? an industrial Megaplex, which is what we're creating there constantly while at the same time understanding the impacts on the environment and how to sustain and maintain that environment. So we believe that industry and environment are not exclusive of each other actually have to work very well together in order to have a sustainable economy and environment and all those things together. So that's always in the back of our mind resiliency how to get you know, better infrastructure how to you know evolve. To how we have to construct to to meet the you know, heavier win loads, you know for larger storms and all those things. Okay. So so that's that's kind of where I hear is all the time we and we also, you know, just a natural thought process is we believe that we're not in an energy transition. It's more like an energy addition. Oil and gas, you know depends who you are, right? And what's what's side of the political Spectrum. Maybe you you fit on but in in our in our view and looking at the future, we don't see a future. in the next 50 years at least Without petroleum products and we we want to be real about that. However um if we can create better Greener less carbon emitting sources of Of energy we need to do that because guess what we need as much energy as we could possibly get. Where we continue to grow as an industrial base, we continue to grow in our country and around the world. We need to do that and we want to play our world. This is where you know, we've been involved in in trying to help. Usher offshore wind into the Gulf Market Gulf of Mexico Market since no really strongly in the last couple of years. We had been hearing about it on the the Northeast Coast. We knew that a lot of our customers are several of our customers our users of Port two show. We're actually going up to the Northeast and building foot playing a role in those things and say well, you know, we do it in I'll throw on a gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico. We can do it in any offshore energy sector, right? So what I can fast forward to now we have a radical currently um with Crowley win for to build a purpose built offshore wind service facility import Food Show. We just extended our affiliate today because as you you all are well aware, the market has not matured over the last couple of years in particularly in the last year as fast as we thought it would right with not a lot of interest in, you know, one rwe were happy with rwe but that's just one lease. That was oh so it didn't mature as fast as we thought so we kind of extended that right before and they probably meet his 40 acres in 2,200 feet. ready for someone to start building So today we just approved the lease with a company called Gulf wind Technologies. Not not sure if you're familiar with that company or James Martin. And they operate an Avondale right now and you in the Mississippi River. He build these basically up a blade Builder right? And and in his mind too. He's trying just as we're doing kind of Usher in or help. You know connect the dots of supply chain for offshore win in the Gulf of Mexico. He's doing the same thing. So we're kind of working together. What we just approved today is a lease to have the first off first wind turbine built along the gulf in Louisiana. So it'll be in the port and what we call our coastal wetlands Park and it's a small scale wind turbine. It's gonna be about a hundred eighty six feet tall from base the tip of Blade, but it'll be it's mainly for data collection purposes, right so some of the issue with the lack of interest in the federal lease sale Was you know several issues one was there were most of the the area was off of Texas and Texas. The state said we're not going to give any transmission agreements. So you might as well not even. Deal with it, right? Louisiana is a different case. We're saying Bring It On. so Anyway, so he's and one of the reasons other reasons. There's not a lot of data still not enough data on you know, the impact of hurricanes on wind blades and and turbines and those sorts of things. So, that's what This is going to be a data collection. wind turbine in the port itself that he's going to put on our property and it's going to create anywhere from 250 to 300 kilowatts per hour. So we hadn't fully done those agreements yet, but we anticipate as a port authority to be the off-taker. And utilize that power for some of our facilities direct facilities and report so that we can show the example, you know, he can collect this data and then we can show the example of how this power can be utilized. in an industrial Market So that's that's one major thing that took place today. We didn't you know, we hadn't pressed press that out yet. We're kind of work on that and kind of do that the first of the year so that's coming out but it's public because it was in a public meeting. We approved release not today. The other thing that happened today on the state level is the first two offshore wind leases in Louisiana state waters are offshore wind agreements were signing were approved today by the Louisiana state mineral. And that was for steelhead vestus, which is a little bit further west in Louisiana. And the other one is Diamond Offshore wind and that that Diamond Offshore wind is gonna be basically about just off of Port huh in our general vicinity and within the three mile limit of Louisiana state water. So what we anticipate is Louisiana being having actually having the first offshore wind turbines constructed in the Gulf of Mexico in Louisiana state waters, and that'll be Hopefully the Catalyst or more development in flu shot, but more more offshore wind development as we come into the future. So so that's that's kind of some two things that just so happened to have happened earlier today that I think is gonna take us and hopefully move the ball forward where we can gain some of that data about wind speeds and what kind of you know, what we kind of impact hurricane winds. Hopefully, we never get a hurricane and he's just gonna have to figure it out but we probably will get some sort of tropical event at some point. Even if it's a tropical storm as long as there's an increased burst of wind speeds. At a given period of time they can always extrapolate impacts right through their their data collection. So so that's um kind of where we are right now in again. Our whole mind that is, you know, we want to we want to be able to attract investment in our community. And create jobs. So anything that we can do as a Port Authority as a public body to You know facilitate. This this industry being created and moving forward in the Gulf of Mexico. That's what we're trying to accomplish and when you talk about impacts on. habitat, and you know, what we know about offshore assets is um You know, the fishing industry has worked. Well together with the offshore island gas industry. so we can't imagine that it won't work well together with the offshore wind industry the structures of the bases of these turbines are going to look similar to you know some platforms that jacket construction is basically with Bowen is telling us we're gonna see you know, all of those assets in the US Gulf of Mexico are artificial reefs. They attract habitat, they create habitat and it's a great recreational fishing location right charter fishing from the commercial side, you know for you know, Fin fish as well that you know for commercial sales as well as you know, You know anybody that has a boat that wants to go fishing. Where do we go fishing at we go to the platforms and structures because that's where there's a habitat. There's feeding and all of those things that those places so from the ocean, you know from the surface down. To us what we can everything we can recognize it's a positive impact. on habitat um I and I'm not let's move into the from the water up, right so obviously the Gulf of Mexico being a migratory bird area. There's gonna be some concern there and I think there's there's more. Of study that needs to be done and I think will is gonna be doing as part of these projects coming through fruition. And and we'll see what that looks like. What I can say is based on some information. I saw from the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries. is that the major concern for the migratory bird flying patterns are little with further to the west of here, you know, this actual footprint of Louisiana in the Gulf of Mexico. It's more room like the Lake Charles area towards or between maybe Morgan City actually. Towards you know Port Arthur type area. That's where the major source of migratory bird patterns flying patterns. Are we absolutely do have some here? the other is going to be Coastal bird, you know Pelican and Eagle and the like so in talking to someone like James Martin a gulf wind Technologies and folks like that. They're like, look, there's some mitigation efforts that we can do. So that's all Gonna Come. As as more these studies take place on on these projects and what they're gonna look like right? I don't think they you know specific Heights how long the blades are gonna be what color they need to be or whatever I'll kind of stop there and kind of see where we need to go from there. 
I think well great. I've done this with him for a bit. Now you you hit. Kind of but down the list. Or go back through this just to kind of kind of confirm with them here in 
Sure. 
there for one. First of all, that's super exciting the developments. I mean just over the past day because you know and getting kind of the first turbines in the water in the first things that's that's gonna serve as a catalyst. Clearly. There's there's a lot of you know reasons we want to do this and everyone's watching each other and having the first one and the data collection. It's huge. But the biggest benefit, you know, 
And how easy? 
course, the reason we're all looking at this is for energy and the potential for for green energy and also got you know the the impacts for fishing, you know seem to be mostly positive for you know that they serve similar functions or artificial reefs in the create create habitat, which benefits to recreational Charter Commercial Fishing, you know, and but the need for study and concerns. for for migrate for Birds both local and and migratory one thing out that you talked about some that you did talk about a good amount, but just because of like who you guys are and the role that you play is on a daily mentioned in the beginning the the role for this to for the community for jobs. And in what you said is kind of to attract investment. What are some potential again sounds like mostly mentioned benefits, but then also any potential concerns that we should be thinking about for kind of community for the local community as we're thinking about offshore wind development. 
I'll take a step right? I'll take a fabric that maybe getting to that next level like you said below the water. I think we have a lot of data and existing proven positive above the water just unknown. So hey the existing right the birds 
Yeah. 
land on when they need to rest. I don't know they can land on moving when so that that's gonna have to be seen but you know to give you an idea we always said, you know, we are you know, our Port is our community. So, you know our commission has already elected. So the thinking and feeling what the community. So, you know it gives you some insight on will how will it impact our community? You know, we have a 460 million dollar elevated Highway being built as we speak that's been 20 years process and we end probably the last five years to get it done. So we completing an elevated highway to get people safely to that point outside the living system to report itself. So that in lies safety for our community and access, you know, besides that we're doing a connect the Road and Bridge 30 million dollar project to our airport, which is the supplier of the labor in the Gulf of Mexico under 30 something more than passengers the year utilize that to get option work and back So we're making that safer for our community and those workers and the volume of the oil drilling operations have lowered. Even State about the same because the volumes of bigger deeper water. So they're in live the space that we now have to fill in if need be with the potential in so everything we've been building is now coming to fruition that it wasn't a waste of time. We didn't miss the cycle because we make cycle right into another source of energy, so It's a good feeling we provide energy for the nation. You know, you can't affiliate a little bad when people start bashing you and you've been providing that energy but give us an opportunity to turn it into potential when knowing we still need oil but using or getting oil and using a cleaner burning portion of that clean green. Hydrocargazers in there and so, you know, there's all these possibilities that fit right into what we've been doing is just going to be two different types instead of one. And same people are going to work, you know, hey, they slow down in here so they can migrate into you same people we training at the training at universities as well as trade schools. So there's a lot of pluses and positive and I'll let talk about yeah a plan that we had for the last 12 years over, you know future Island oil and gas and how it's gonna fit in with with the wind. Yeah and and to go back to kind of some you negative, you know for for us. With a very conservative leaning community. a lot of a lot of the skepticism of wind is is out there and you know, we're trying to you know, we're trying to at the end of the day a lot of this stuff is political, right? So we try to be a voice of reason about how look that's why I said earlier, you know, our basic platform is all of the above strategy, right? We're gonna we need you know oil and gas that the technology the science the chemistry doesn't exist yet to enjoy all the things. We enjoy life without patrolling products. All right, so we need to be real about that right you think build a solar panel or wind turbine without some sort of patrolling product? Included in that so let's be real about that. Right but as we as we can balance our carbon emitting. footprint of to keep like the Gulf of Mexico operating in offshore oil and gas production and expiration because it's in the US at least and second to in the world second. Only a solar Arabia is the lowest carbon footprint. Barrel of oil is the Gulf of Mexico, right? So let's let's keep that momentum going and you know lower lower our carbon footprint and let's do all sure win now. What I'll tell you what I anticipate offshore wind. In the Gulf of Mexico to be especially in Louisiana. It's less going to be about providing electricity or energy to. General household for General Hospital use It's gonna be more about. Providing energy for industrial purposes to lower the carbon footprint of Industry, right, Louisiana the Mississippi River calculation Ship Channel. We are heavy industry. Um I believe that what we're gonna see as things start to mature a little bit is offshore wind providing the green energy for hot green hydrogen production that'll then be utilized as feedstock for the industrial corridors on both the Western half Loop side of Louisiana and the Mississippi River. If you don't know the state of Louisiana because of its industrial corridor. has the highest hydrogen consumption of any state in the Union so it makes sense, right? 
will 
It makes sense that. We would turn into a green hydrogen producer. utilizing wind energy to create it for industry then use that green hydrogen as feedstock lower their right Um, so that's where I 100% believe we're going. We'll see right because you also have the green ammonia and the green methanol and all of those things that people are talking about. We just I just came back from Denmark and four weeks ago went to Denmark towards some ports over there they do and Denmark is all about altering in right they they went from oil and gas. They still didn't boiling gas, but they went from fishing for the August, of course in our offshore win in both the North Korean about it. So we went to kind of visit that looks like so we can try to you know, truly get a full graph and you know, they were talking really about hydrogen, not a fuel that has a source of you know other capabilities for for energy, but every time I ammonia which you know, we don't need to get into chemistry that scales a crap on me more than hydrogen does once even tablespoon can kill a lot of people but anyway, but that's that's kind of where you know. Technology people are starting to think about you know, it's it's less about in my mind right now at least for Louisiana. It's less about the energy that the wind is gonna create used for electricity and more about you feel like trellises. You know to create that that hydrogen source to then be used by the end and again investment and infrastructure. in Louisiana, especially in our area of pipeline So the pipelines exist. You don't have to go build the pipelines to run the green hydrogen in to get them to the plants along the roof. Any other place you do this, you got to put all of that in you so those advantages of people saying, oh we were going to go build a wind Port right here to work offshore. East Coast well, then they got to start from scratch, you know, you got to build the highway infrastructure. Then you got a permanent in a wetland to start building. You know, we have we have the past history of building. Develop property as well as building. 1200 Acres of pristine Marsh with our dredge materials so You know that that's where it lied the benefits we have because we're in that industry. already, I think it's I'm a biased obviously very biased but for me we should have started. Trying offshore wind out in the Gulf of Mexico rather than on the East Coast. Because yeah. The majority of the supply chain already exists the capability. Should I say already exists? They're so Specialties that don't exist that you have to create for sure when but the knowledge of working in the daily operational aspects and construction of offshore structure Doesn't exist anywhere else, but the Gulf of Mexico. So why would you then try to I mean, you have to go spend hundreds and hundreds and billion dollars to create a port that doesn't exist today, and they don't know how to exist. 
should 
20 right and we've been working here in in the Gulf of Mexico and specifically for sale. our soul Service sector for the most part with the exception of about 5% of our tunages is you know commercial Seafood. Everything else is offshore. Energy Services Right. It's there. It's here. We we know what to do the logistics capabilities and all those things. So You know, we're we're gonna I think we're gonna end up creating in the Gulf of Mexico with state project and the first order that we project assuming that all goes to come for fruition and hopefully more as as the years come. I think we're gonna create a different way to operate that's cheaper faster. Um for all show in then what they're doing in the Northeast. There's a number of factors for that. There's some. You know labor issues and those kinds of things as well that we don't deal with for the most part in the Gulf. Anyway, we might be getting off track from what what y'all are looking for, but 
No, no, we're in exactly. 
Thank you. Right. We're just we're an open. How we say? 
Oh. Yeah, I think we're getting all type all that information, which is really good. That's something I we were starting to get to is it sounds like you're optimistic then that like the creation of jobs and use of infrastructure will stay local that it's not going to be outsourced 
So let me yes. 
that 
With what we can handle we don't have a large community. Um So we'll feel all the jobs we can and then we're gonna have to bring people in which we do today right to supply and and feel all the jobs that are out there. So, you know, that's a hope. That's a whole other issue right our our employment. Data is a whole other issue, right? We have major issues in the country everywhere you go around the world right now. Everybody's looking for people and there's nobody to work but there's a lot of people not working. Right? It's one of those anomalies that we can't understand sometimes but anyway, We're gonna We believe our our customers our current customers or what we know they are they're working in offshore wind now in the Northeast and you know, there's some a new one of our main customers is Major customers, you know building in vessel for our set as we speak in Houma just to the west of us, you know, they have a number of vessels that have former. I'll show you are like, yeah, that's all. service boats that are Have been retrofit to go to the Northeast and and work in in those fields. So that's what that's what we're going to continue to see so so our people are going to be working in all share with. our community is gonna be working an offshore with There's no doubt in my mind. on that it's all probably and as always something that we you know thought and in our future development, we're getting deeper draft into our port in our future development. You know, we were we were looking at project cargo for all showing. Yes. Deepwater rig repair and refurbishment and decrement. Well now we've updated a little bit to that project cargo very well could be major offshore wind project cargo and that decommissioning location can also be a fabrication yard for Jackie construction for the base of offshore wind projects. So it's the the reduction and maybe some of the activity in the Gulf of Mexico. I'll show Island gas. bringing in the offshore wind sector has solidified us as certainly wanting to continue to move forward on our deeper draft and a new development for deep capability because of the offshore wind component companies. 
and something that I really like that you guys. Brought up one. I really appreciate you bringing the perspective both as like the you know, executive directors, you know meeting for Sean, but then also as longtime community members both report and yourself and the what you brought up about like the use and maintenance of infrastructure, you know boats highways. the port and drafted 
Yeah. 
are how you know? How do you see you know, this is you know can be like highly speculative. But how could management? Kind of help optimize these benefits and then also, you know some of the concerns that you brought up mitigate those potential concerns what? How how do you see management being able to help the situation? 
And then manage you mean what management? of 
That can be any anything. I'll jump in Holden. I could be anything from federal 
Yeah. 
state level policies all the way down to Bone Bessie construction operation plans. things that they want to impose on the lessees basically anything that you could think of Worlds your oyster and you don't have to be realistic, but we're just kind of What we're trying to get at is all the relationships that you talked about and then sort of maybe the Invisible Hand of policy and management and how it might be able to tie their help or hurt the things you talked about. 
Well, I'll talk about it. Let's just from just an offshore win perspective and from an overall perspective. When I talk about management and think about permitting right and doing crop, you know. how to be able to get move forward on projects I believe what we have an issue in our country when it comes to permitting. with silo of agencies only looking at blinders on At what their acts are within their agency? that absolutely conflict with other agencies silos and grass. And they get in the way and they call time. to pass by and I think what we're seeing. What with or if they're pulling the plug on two major projects and then Northeast? Part of that the reasoning is it took so much time to get to where they were that the economic barriers have have original over the last couple of years with inflation of everything. And it caused them to not do those projects. And that's that's a clear. That's because of the timing it takes to get these major projects permitted to move forward. So we really need to. Have and I know we have in in the white house. There's a you know, there's this group that's supposed to be created this dashboard and you're supposed to be able to go to this dashboard and everybody's together. He's supposed to get this permit. Just kind of Pumped out right? You got to follow all the rules nifa. That's always be done. Right? You gotta do all that, but it's supposed to be expedited. That's not the case. Right? And I think I think what I've seen in the last, you know, I've been doing this for 18 years. You know in the 18 years of and baby for 27. 27 29 29 my bad. Yeah, you know in those in that time frame the problem. exists and persist always is you know. National marine fisheries us fish and wildlife just for an example, right they have they basically look at the same thing. But they have differing. missions Right. So that's conflicting. Noah in general is all about navigation, right? But then so it's it's you get pulled as a someone who tries to get permits to do, you know both Industrial Development as well as You know Marsh creation and Coastal restoration work and those sorts of things, you know when we're trying to do beneficial work. And they still Dragon we get hammered right? Wait. We we trying to create more, you know, that's your past and you give us a rough time getting the permit to create the Mars. What what are we not understanding there? Right and and I guess it's I can't you can't under emphasize the fact that we don't think we're not about trying to skirt. the environmental process at all But when we're looking at projects. We need to look at the big picture. And come back down rather than looking at silos and working our way out. Because that's what takes all the time. If you if we if we can understand the big picture and say all right the benefits of these projects. or here any sort of negativity is way down here. So why are we focused on that first? Let's focus on the positives. And how do we make it happen rather than how we can we say no. That's that's kind of like this the struggle that anybody that works. Especially in a marine environment on a coastal environment, you know, we're in you know habitat and and land areas that are that are are you know? There they fall apart. Right? Our Morse is falling apart here in Louisiana, but we live here and we grow up here. We're not we're not trying to do anything. That's gonna damage. We're trying to make it better. Right and sustain it for the future. So, you know taking that hammer on continue to beat us on the head. It's frustrating when and it is true. That is probably the most aggravating thing is it is legal. To get a permit and build what we want to build. They're supposed to be an agency out there helping us get that permit. Not telling us why we can't do it. They supposed to be telling us how to do it. How do we get this permit to benefit to the benefit industry, but it's benefiting environment as well. We showing you about and and let's move over. They just think I don't know. We I think some some agencies just have the block if we're in the street. We cannot be for environment. Yeah, and that we are the poster child of industry and environment coexisting doing the beneficial projects. We have a coastal Wetland Park in the middle of our Port we have a marathon Forest Ridge on the North edge of our Port that we build in the middle of mitigation to have our elevation of oak tree and recreate a shinier of a marsh and nobody else. So we have taken that step of the new things that nobody's done while we're building an industry and an environment, you know, but it's it's that's how we think we want good jobs because we want to stay here and enjoy our recreational benefits of the wetlands. and and the other thing too is you know from From a coastal perspective from a protection and restoration perspective. We have a coastal master plan. Any any thing that we do? um has to satisfy the the different, you know, the vision of that Coastal master plan and our coastal zone in the state of Louisiana and check. Where are you on? We actually had legislators making the push. To put the legislative in place for me to then the Gulf of Mexico that funding would go to Coastal protection. Oh, yeah. Yeah all of so, we've already made that push say hey we're gonna have with energy we want. The money that's being made to go back to protecting Coast wetlands. That's what they're using the access to women. Yeah, yeah, we're working on that for sure. 
That's that's in the Louisiana for Louisiana wind. 
Louisiana, but we're also working. um, there's a bill that hand fully passed in in different versions one one side of that, you know, either the senate or the house ever passed all all the way through but it's this kind of trying to do the same thing as we've done with the Gulf of Mexico energy Security Act in terms of Royalty revenues, you know so lease Revenue leasing Revenue that go to the Department of interior and royalty revenues from production of energy of online gas. They go to the federal treasury. Um, it's you know, it's it's Revenue 
You know. 
sharing basically with the states. So yeah, they're trying to have some legislation that also does that with offshore win? But at the state's gonna get some of the revenues back for the impacts to their students for the production of that energy, right? So so here in in Louisiana that goes us further. We after Hurricane Katrina. So in 2000 the legislative session about six um We passed the Constitutional limit as 80% voted for this Constitutional Amendment that all of our all of the funding that we get from offshore island gas. Royalty revenues goes to Coastal protection and restoration projects 100% Um, and there's 10% of that of that hundreds. They that can go towards. infrastructure That's impacted by Coastal land loss. Right so that elevated la-1 Highway got someone I've been energy has the potential to use that beneficial Highway took a 20 years to do and a hundred hundred million dollars to build. Well, there should be a mechanism to able to get some back to maintain it. Yeah. anyway, we went on a tangent, but the world according to change they 
yeah. 
fail we do not like we 
You can tell permitting is what it's a huge part of your lives. 
there's a little bit of passion here. 
Okay. Just what make sure before we leave that because that's our kind of final question is sure, you know. Any other kind of management, you know, and this is can be really broad of how you know, like any government local state federal can. Could be potentially used to you know, kind of optimize a lot of these benefits that you that you've talked about or potential mitigate damages. 
um I don't know I mean. 
Okay. 
I'm not sure really and you know, I think I think just working. working with us and You know making sure that. That we can we can get some projects done. Obviously if studies come out and say that You're gonna you know. Kill off endangered species, especially on the on the The Burning side. Then there's an issue. We got to figure out a deal with that, right? But it doesn't it doesn't eliminate the fact that we need to we need to create more energy. 
Yeah. 
And how do you change to grow we have to figure out? Yeah, how to get there how to match it meet it continue to go and that's why you know that you know, I think the conflict right now is someone someone has people believing that you can get rid of oil and gas. So they thinking if we put some windows of that Bond, but unless we take turns turning power off for a month and time in communities that ain't happening everybody wants their energy. So we have to figure out like I said, if you can take that hydrocarbon and a cleaner Greener burning hydrocarbon and utilize it while you transitioning to other options, and I'm thinking I'm liking Gulf of Mexico, you know, I think we're by it but I mean, you know, it's turbines that work off of the ocean currents drilling since we know how to do that Drilling in the ocean floor to the core The Heat Of The Core is Earth and using that I mean, They're going to figure out the energy companies are going to figure out because there will always be the need for energy. So the same energy companies are going to transition, but you can ask them to transition to something that we want willing to buy from them. At this point, so if we transition to something we can't buy then we all have no power. So it has to be worked out and it has to be affordable. Yeah. so, you know, I think we said it a good spot looking at you know, I was at the work boat show speaking on when our ports and and infrastructure Imports and and I'll quickly learned over the last I say learn quickly over the last 10 years. Why are they interested in us? Or wind energy and it's because they needed ports on the east coast and they were trying to figure out how you do it. Well, you know when I sit back and look it took us 20 something years to be able to serve as Deepwater Gulf of Mexico commodity to space needed there is no point on the East school and they're getting out of the you know, traditional container business. You know, so they can't find a spot it takes too long and too expensive the permit a new spot. So they don't have a place to service win on the east or west coast. So while they're doing that they they figured out whatever is a spot down there that Services energy and maybe that's a spot we can do some test sites. Maybe that's a spot we can deliver our goods and services and and actually we have people delivering things these posts from food show, right? So It gives me a positive feeling that when the timings right and people can make money at it and sell the commodity. Like I said our advantages that commodity could be sold. green carb green hydrogen Pipeline and existing pipeline while they run utility lines, but we also have utility lines as well. We also have future addition to the Ford chat mentioned that could buy that offshore energy right there on the spot without having to build infrastructure in so we fit with a lot of benefits that other areas don't to help create and build this energy sector of you know in the Gulf as well as in the US. Thank you. 
Yeah, it sounds like it's don't I like you guys perspective that's not this is not one or the other like 
Okay. 
this can be both and eventually they'll be transitions but the synergistic 
Yes. Yes. 
 
