I don't really think I'm an expert in anything but 
And in the first question is like to add, you know, it's it's asking about and impacts. from offshore wind or you know thinking about the potential impacts of offshore wind to Gulf of Mexico ecosystem Services. Of course, this is really Broad. 
hmm 
Of course impacts or thinking about both positive and negative potential impacts. And off for wind development, we're thinking about both the construction and operation and potentially decommissioning. So kind of like holistically together. 
Yeah. 
For you on thinking it's because you have such a broad areas of expertise is maybe like starting out asking about, you know, like the the like oceanography the physical kind of oceanographer. The impacts potentially then kind of the IG chemistry then eventually into the biology ultimately to and ultimately to the social which I know is a lot but thinking it just as a way to structure it because you have a hand in you know in knowledgeable 
All those things. 
each of these. 
Yeah. Sure. Okay. So the question is is broadly what do I see as the potential impacts of offshore wind development? 
yeah, he 
Okay. Um, all right, and we have an hour. No just kidding. Um okay, I don't know that I am going to Rank these so this is a no certain order. So it's a little bit of a previous Association and it's a little easier for me to do this than maybe some because this is our job, right? So we sort of have like it encyclopedic list of potential impacts and we discuss them and study them. but starting at the like bottom up hydrodynamic impacts are one and I don't know maybe the questions come later about like what are some most important areas of future study, but I think that's one that's not super. Well understood and is a huge stakeholder concern and there's been there's like one side specific study. There's a general National academies. I'm not gonna call it a study because there's really no real no findings. I don't find it very helpful. So there's that but so what are the hydrogenic impacts? Underwater of putting in a wind farm and that could affect like larval displace disbursement and corals and all the things right, um nutrient cycling. There's above air which is slightly better studied. I think and like will this affect weather patterns and also like you get less wind the more you harness that you affect the wind pattern so Downstream effects on Energy potential and such but more concerned with the subsurface impacts hydrogenically, and there's some benthic impacts associated with like scouring. I think those are less of a concern but there's potential benthic impacts of just having a wind farm with steel in the water. And then there's of course the benthic impacts of actually putting in like driving in a bottom-founded if they are or an anchor and the scour protection that exists around those structures changes the bentos. I think that the potential impacts of Those are better understood so less of an area for study but important impacts to consider depending on where you are. habitat conversion and general sense both at the sea floor interface and then also above water fish impacts one question. It's a common stakeholder question is like how was change the patterns of fish where they live? Are you going to actually increase biomass in the Gulf of Mexico fish or they just moving from new from Place A to B, because there's a artificial restructure the fact that's well understood and studied, but are we actually just attracting fish or making new fish is the biomass gonna go up are we gonna change Community structures overall? We know about specifically within the wind farm how you might change community structure but is that temporary actually changing like the entire Gulf like number of red snappers or something hard question answer Birds obvious and huge impact potential to say potential but you know Gulf of Mexico's. For some other Mexico specifically, right? Yes, big big area for migrating birds some of which are protected endangered and what how bad is that going to be? And how can we make it less bad? sea turtles and whales other than the mate there's the common impact producing factors that affect them like vessel strike risk from having on both increased vessel traffic that increased potential to strike. It's not unique to Offshore wind, but it's an issue and the pile driving to if you're talking about bottom-founded turbines. or the potential noise impacts or considerable and the mitigation so far are limited in the efficacy needs to be better as retained and are having trouble. Mmm, actually demonstrating that the attenuations are effective. So that's a big one noise. But also what else do we have here these were big ones? I'm gonna go back to my list of things. mmm Yeah, and then operational noise which again is less of an issue. But sometimes it comes up with stakeholder concerns. and socially less of my area of expertise but fishing again, we talked about like Community changes and aggregations. And if this is the area where I either subsistence or recreationally fish or commercially fish before and then you put in a wind farm and it attracted them am I going to lose out and how does that affect me? Those are some and important and there's the obvious impacts of like the spatial rep like a wind farm being spatially there and what that means for what that space can no longer be used for like shrimping. That's something that before you sign a wind farm or questions that are being asked and I think boom is doing a pretty good job with their spatial modeling being transparent and And thoughtful about where they're putting these wind farms in the Gulf of Mexico and avoiding space use complex, but it won't be zero. And then another big issue relatedly is the fishery and dependent surveys from Noah. And the potential impacts of citing a wind farm in areas that are used for fisheries management surveys and that might look Downstream effect. fishing quotas and other management decisions yeah, I'm I won't go into like military and Like other uses of this it's just not very of expertise. So but I do know we're considering um considers those those things when sighting one Farm but space use conflicts are are a big one and then there's the Also from a social perspective, but I think less of an issue for the Gulf of Mexico is the visual impacts and why is it less of an issue for the Gulf of Mexico? It's such an industrialized Basin. So of course there will be impacts, but the The baseline or from a cumulative perspective. I think they're minimal. Okay my opinion. Um, did I not touch on something that you're like, why isn't she mentioned X and I just have forgotten it. 
Now you've been very confident. 
If you probably filled out the whole comprehensive. 
We're also we're we're not going to see any ideas in your head as well. That's 
Right. Okay fair enough. Yeah, you're being impartial surveyors. 
we're we're 
Actually just want to check check with will because like I've worked with him enough to know like yeah, you just like laid out like a whole model like that the whole model much of it, um, because there was so much 
Yeah. 
will that you have any things because there's kind of because we're able to capture all of that. 
Yeah, no, I don't have any. Islands per se I'm just looking here. 
Oh bats bats go with birds. 
Let's go with birds. 
What? 
Yeah, and insects is a question mark for for me and my are of expertise. I'd I know they come up with stakeholders like monarch butterflies where they actually migrating over the Gulf of Mexico or they migrating up through, Mexico, Overland. There's anecdotal reports of seeing 
right 
monarch butterflies on Offshore platforms for oil and gas. So does that mean like unknowns and real hard to like tag a butterfly? So question marks about insects and bats 
That's good. Yeah, we we're looking for the question marks as much as we are the things that 
Yeah, that's a good question mark 
share. 
those two. 
My the one thing I'll come back to that is not so much an island, but more of a stub here in the model is the the air current question that you brought up it's something we've talked a little bit about internally because we do have physicists and we know there's there's models about how much wind is available in the Gulf of Mexico and how it relates to energy production, but there hasn't been as much discussion about localized impacts to air currents and airflow. Do you see those having Downstream impacts on some of the things that you were just talking about migratory birds birds insects bats things like that or Are the potential impacts to ecosystem Services related to air currents unknown? 
I think they're unknown. 
Okay. 
anyway, the most of this studies and I don't couldn't couldn't say how many there are but most the states are more looking at like okay, here's my lease and I'm gonna get the wind and then it's the least behind me gonna be a loser because like has it affect then and also has it affect the rest of my wind farm, right? I got the front line and then so about spacing and grid formations and such. So more from like a Energy Efficiency extraction perspective and less or harnessing and less about How might like bird flights like their aerodynamics be affected by the turbulence created by one Farm. There are some modeling and studies done on that. I don't recall that issue coming up 
right 
very much. in environmental assessment writings and discussions in the New England which makes me think it's less of a big deal, but I don't know. 
the other the other thing I'd pose is sort of on the in the political realm obviously offshore wind is moving through existing processes within poem and at the state and federal levels in the Gulf of Mexico that are not necessarily one size fits all but you guys have commonly utilized for oil and natural gas activities and are now applying to Offshore wind activities. Do you see any potential effects of sort of this newer intrusion into the ecosystem on the political realm or your side of things or do you imagine that you'll continue to use offshore where the current sort of work clothes and processes to address off for wind issues moving forward? 
Can you rephrase the question in a way where I don't get the political 
right 
part? 
Yeah, I guess. In the same way that we're thinking about offshore wind is a new intrusion the ecosystem. It's going to have Downstream effects on ecosystem Services if you were to 
Uh-huh. 
consider 
Yeah. 
maybe specific workflows or management Pathways and regulations as ecosystem services. Do you anticipate there will be changes to sort of those processes as a result of offshore wind or do you think Rather offshore wind will will sort of fit the mold what already exists in terms of environmental impact or even like I said local. 
mmm 
State Federal 
is a way as an example. I think I get it now, but let me ask by giving an example, but I think you mean is like we don't typically do the level of spatial. We with the government don't typically do the level of spatial modeling and sighting for say an oil and gas platform in the Gulf of Mexico that we did do for citing the lease areas for offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico. So partially because it's a different kind of program right like 
Yeah. 
the spatial presence of a Lynch Farm is different than a platform. But I think also because it's a new. I'm using air quotes this transitions 
right 
can see. in the Gulf of Mexico that we are doing things a little differently. 
Yeah, and it is I apologize because it is sort of a meta question. But yeah, in terms of material changes to the way that you guys are doing business as a result of offshore wind. 
Yes, okay. Yes. Um, yes. Yes. I think that we are doing business differently because of offshore wind. and why do I think that I think that Because it's a new program. With potentially different impacts number one, so there are new questions to ask and so we are. Looking at things a little fresh. because the the potential impacts for offshore oil and gas or for the most part well understood there's some areas that are less unders like Acoustics is an ever-evolving area of concern and science. writing eises for for oil and gas for years. So we're considering things afresh from like there's a new source of impacts, but then we are reevaluating the way that we do our science. I think and the questions the kind of questions we ask and more importantly perhaps the way we interact with. the public because of this new program area Also, we're considering things I think will maybe more holistically or we I think there's a hint of us beginning to do that. So for example, like noise We know it's an issue for oil and gas. We have mitigations. We improve them over time. So what the mitigations for offshore wind are different and more intense. so that's you can ask to say question when it comes to the Gulf of Mexico and you're gonna ask for if they want to do pile driving in the Gulf of Mexico. Will they be using a bubble curtain because right now they're not using bubble curtains for pile driving the Gulf of Mexico. But if you want to drive a pile for wind farm in New England the standard mitigation as an outcome of those Esa consultations is a bubble curtain or something similar. So those are the kinds of questions. That have our being sort of like imported from New England. That will come into the Gulf of Mexico so that right now they're at the questions stage, but I think it's going to look different and I think generally we're gonna be getting a little more intense and entire with the reduction of our the attempt to reduce our impacts. Number one. I also think we're gonna be getting more intense at least for offshore one, but will it will it be a corollary for other program areas in the involvement of the lessee and developing and implementing these mitigations because one big difference with our ongoing program areas in offshore wind is the responsibility of the lessee and the Dare, I say burden on the lessee is right now. the distinction is pronounced if you look at the conditions of approval for a construction operation plan compared to the conditions of approval for a exploratory drilling plan, which are very different things at very different scales. So it's hard to compare but There's there's some big differences there in the amount of phone expenditures and responsibilities of the lessee has for monitoring and mitigating. So I think that's going to change some things. That helping is that I get it. Yeah, okay. 
Yes. 
There's a lot more to say here. 
Sorry to Bo, right? 
It's like it is it is there a little bit of an existential question? It's a question that I've posed to 
departmental leadership in a listening session. Um, and the question I framed it as how can you explain to me? How on the one hand the Administration has decarbonizing goals that are aggressive. Well at the same time. Approving the construction of wind farms with a high level of burden on industry for for mitigations and costs and just straight up. financial compensation 
right 
and the answer I got there was good question and it's a new program. We know a lot more now about the potential impacts that humans have on the environment and it's not decarbonized at all costs. It's decarbonized with like intent and carefully and so we the word mistake is not used for oil and gas but like we don't have to use the same model. And that's easier to do in New England where there is an oil and gas but then to come down and we'll have like similar operators say a survey boat surveying for oil and gas and also wind perhaps even in the same day with different rules. It's gonna be interesting. 
but there's a front from the beginning. I wanted to kind of pull back to as well here. and that you said that the hydraulic hydrologic impacts are not well understood which is kind of what I've kind of seen as well. 
Put your Dynamic impacts. 
Yeah, the hydrogen name again packs of it. This is the first time I've had it to ask someone you know that has a PHD in oceanography and the background that you have. Could you just kind of you know explain some of them more of your thoughts on you know, what could what we could potentially see ask you to be maybe even a little bit speculative. 
Mm-hmm. 
and then also, you know with specific context to the these are in the Gulf of Mexico where there's you know, hypoxia and you know and you know in the diversion projects going on, you know, if it has there's all the it's a very unique system there. So yeah, could you just kind of talk more about you know yours, you know some of the even being speculation on those potentially, you know hide and 
Yeah, sure. I can um, it's super speculative 
primary. 
because I'm not I physical 
Yeah. 
oceanography is is I'm not to a class but it's not my not my background but from my vague understanding and like from I know what the concerns have been voiced are and I've read some things so The idea is that there will be Downstream. Localized but how localized impacts on currents like the way that currents move through the benthos and those currents? And not just about those rights. The entire water column is from the top to the bottom. So how will that impact? the things that those currents carry like nutrients like Oxygen like Zoe and phytoplanktons And other food sources for higher trophic levels. And how would that impact? disbursement of Larval State like smaller life stages and smaller organisms. And I can't say I don't think we know how localized it is. And how much it actually does change so that the the scale and degree of the impact is unknown to me. There's been as far as I know like one site specific modeling study. That I know of but there might be others and other countries that have I just don't know but it's a question mark and it's a big it's bigger of concern. And so I I wouldn't I don't know if I could even like have her guess it how important this issue is, but I know from a social like stakeholder perspective. It's a really important issue. um that I think needs to be answered and people have sometimes an issue translating like a New England studied the Gulf of Mexico and you mentioned that unique How it is a unique Basin we have the loop current we have and anoxia. We've got got this huge fresh water input causes stratification. So how's that going to be affected? And of course, it depends on where the wind farm is and Etc. But yeah, so localized effects and then or they're like more long-lasting your team like larger scale impacts from putting in like maybe like, let's say three four one farms in the Gulf, Mexico. I think it's gonna be mostly localized issues and well from what I've seen where they want to put the wind farms so far so far. There's not a lot of hard bottom in those areas. So in terms of like Coral propagation fish spawning areas. I guess it depends on which fish responding in the area and I just don't know. I just know it's a big question mark for me. Sorry. I don't have this. I don't have a satisfying. Um a wag for you Yeah. 
okay, it's fine. These are I mean, this is as far as I know too or working on this or unknowns and that's why I'm kind of 
Yeah. 
trying to find the extent of your knowledge because I think you're aware of basically the current state of the science and and I know this so I'm just trying to I'm trying to find like that. and that I want to also, you know, I guess I hope this doesn't break the model well, but there's two things you didn't mention because I'm pretty sure that it's we don't understand. We just don't understand it well enough, but I just want to get because I think you probably know more than as much as that can be known the concerns for like electromagnetic things from it and then also the heat transmission from Google's. 
Yes, those are two things that I reminded myself of as I was just I was gonna get to those next. Yes, good good to ring them up, but you didn't influence me because I already had them in my mind. Um So don't worry. Yeah EMF. My general thoughts on EMF are that we have studied it. Pretty thoroughly. it's not a big issue here. that's my that's my like SME conclusion, but it doesn't stop it from coming up as a concern. And it seems like every time it comes up. It's like well, what about the EMF from this? Source versus this Source or what about EMF, you know about it on skates and lobsters, but you don't know about shrimp. What about the shrimp? Um, so there's always more questions right than we have time or money. I don't think this is a big deal and I think that there are a lot of non offshore wind related plate like pieces of evidence to support that conclusion if I were like writing an assessment today. But there's always a consideration of like well should we just be addressing it? Because the stakeholders are asking about it and like shrimp is a huge fishery in the Gulf of Mexico. For example So I don't think it's a big deal. But it comes up. And it comes up for different languages. Also, it doesn't help that there's not a great way to measure EMF and the field so there's often one uses magnetic force as a surrogate, which is You might argue not the best at least it's not direct so that creates challenges in studying and also just like post installation measuring and monitoring of the enough. for heat those transmission cables get pretty hot. They get buried. Um, and there's pretty pretty straightforward modeling done. I think even some Institute measurements and other for other existing wind farms about How far that heat? transfers, you know dissipates from what's burial point up into the water column and It decreases over, you know over distance obviously and doesn't change the temperature of the surfacial sediments. Some people ask about like infauna. They're very pretty deeply and an area that isn't Aerobic, so there's not a lot of infana. It's not none and then you could talk about soil microbes and how that might be changing their certainly would be changing like their metabolism rates and probably certainly even like the community structure of the microorganisms and the sediments and how does that lead to carbon transfer information in the Gulf of Mexico? For sure could spend a lot of time could spend a whole PhD about that question. Do I think it's really relevant? I guess in my like current day training and like concerns. I don't think it's irrelevant question that I would spend a lot of time on from like a What are the most important impacts but of course it's gonna change the community structure for microbes in the sediments. Like obviously we know that we have plenty of studies to show us when you change the temperature. Here's what happens. And yeah, so kind of like a so what are we gonna like see major changes in like the respiration of carbon and like a big like signal of like CO2 coming out of the settlements where you bury this thing? I don't think that matters on a scale that would that like if you scale up no. 
yeah. 
Is that I don't. Um, but they're still questions that know my colleagues and I are thinking about from the stakeholder concern not the microbial Transformations. It's just not something that we typically get into. because when you draw it out to the so what we kind of know enough to know but there's not going to be that many cables and I don't think it's going to change like the carbon budget the Gulf of Mexico sediments. Oh, yeah. rambling 
And those good Holden I think in the interest of time we should skip to four. 
yeah, and I did want to capture one thing real quick. Just because it's something we actually talked about and in New Orleans, but I know another potential concern is fishing exclusion and just wanted to kind of mention that because I know that's another big or you know. Potential impacts of that from your perspective and just capture that really quick. 
Yes. Yes, there will be exclusion. of some fishing From a logistical standpoint, you know the areas are not officially closed to fishing. And I think that the recreationally people are gonna benefit. There'll be a benefit because of the artificial Reef effects and structure providing habitat for fish and From a commercial perspective, they're not prevented from going through there, but either reticence from a navigational perspective. or also from like entanglement, you know, you cannot control through their There's all these very cables. I think that would be I don't know if it's prevented, but it doesn't have a good idea. So troll Fisheries or long lining. um same with the survey like scientific surveys that are done those will be difficult to impossible to continue and so they will for sure be effects will be some displacement. Will they move elsewhere will they? suffer economic losses TBD Those are being addressed policy wise with some. um voluntary fishery mitigation police the leasing stage I can't remember the word for it. But yeah. To put into a Fisheries compensation fund for the for those that might be in. So yes, there will be effects do I can I speak to the degree depends on where the wind farm goes and the spatial modeling that boom is doing is seeking to reduce those impacts at the siding stage, which is great. But it's never zero. And so it depends. 
Thank you. Okay. Just want to capture that. 
Sure. 
the last one probably want to get some of your input too will because it's From your person you're gonna have a different perspective on this, but from your perspective, the the broad question is what management actions would you recommend to affect these relationships today? And now, you know, you kind of gave a lot and a lot of it you you touched on these already I think from the perspective of this is to be the idea of like knowing what you know, not necessarily even within current limitations, but like from an ammunition manager point of view. Maybe because we listed the first ones. What are the most important management actions? That we could that we should be taking or at least considering at the stage. 
To reduce impact for what purpose? 
To to reduce adverse impacts that you've mentioned and exacerbate positive impacts. 
Okay. Well, that's hard. 
It probably know too much about this to. 
Yeah to like come up with like. Yeah, and I I always get stuck with the you know, say we need more research right? That's an easy answer. There's limited budgets and time and money. So hmm. What are the most important management? Okay. well for one August will start us somewhere probably and I'll zoom in because I need the contacts from answer. I've identified a lot of areas of potential impacts and a lot of the extent and scale of the impacts are unknown. You could spend. our entire the budget of like every agency maybe minus DOD, but anyway, all the science agencies could spend all their budget trying to answer all these questions. And where would you be at the end of the day? so I think management wise being strategic about how and which which questions to answer and how to answer them. So I for example, I mentioned the like increasing temperatures changing the microbial structure. You can go out there and measure and do you know DNA and expressions of different genes or you could just do a desktop modeling study to talk about like extent of the likely temperature changes given the depth of burial and how far that moves and Gulf of Mexico sediments knowing that you we all know the bottom temperature of of the Basin and most areas and so on I think getting smart about how to use our money. identifying the highest priority answer questions to ask and potentially getting buy-in or at least communicating to the public What those priority questions are and how they're being addressed? That's not gonna satisfy everyone right like the microbiologist out. There are still going to want to know about exactly how you change the structures and what have you but I think getting realistic about what are the most important questions to answer and then identifying research funds to address them. in a collaborative way using Partnerships and leveraging funds and all that sounds like a very standard answer and it kind of is and it's very hard to do and I realize it's part of what you're doing here. So well done. But I think trying to chase. Every unknown is impossible. So being strategic and how to do it. I think we can start to. coalescence around when we know enough or when a corollary from another region for example is sufficient. is also a great place to start and I don't know exactly how you how you get there because I don't want to stop people from asking questions, of course, but I think Where we have enough information from other places. We can. try to come to an agreement like as a concerned research Community about what's Or what's enough where's sufficient? Yeah, and then addressing them like winners and losers in terms of displacement is super complicated. And there's just going to be some degree of compensation financial compensation that happens. I know. But trying to reduce the impacts up front is a great way to do things and we're trying to do that as much as possible. And I also think understanding getting a better understanding of what the ACT, you know spatial overlap is one question, but then there's like the so okay. So so what how much does this? 3% of my lease area overlaps with your thing you want to do? the early matter can we find reasonable? Repeatable ways of measuring what that how that really matters, right? Because there's to address the climate crisis we've got to take action and I am generally concerned is like a scientist. on the like regulatory hurdles that we're putting in front of these wind Developers to make it so perfect. And they're going out of business. And then pulling up stakes and I'm really concerned that we're scaring them away. with all our concerned scientists community 
I know we're we're rich in Canada the 
business 
end of our time, but I just wanted like from a personal standpoint. And I know it's hard as a scientist because you think like well, these should be entered by the stakeholders. But what do you see as the highest priority questions for us right now? 
Oh gosh the highest. I think for Gulf of Mexico wind specifically, right? Yeah. 
Yeah. 
Yeah, I think how to do. I think how to avoid impacts to migrating birds. Or avian just use avian umbrella there. 
the flying thing 
the flying things and the in a hydrodynamics I think are I think are too big important areas. It's really hard to rank. 
Yeah. 
um Yeah, and that's as a biologist right? I'm not a fishery scientist. 
Yeah. 
They might have different but that for me personally, I think those are the or two biggies. and then as like from a workload perspective or like things that I know my team are gonna have to deal with and noise medication 
hmm 
Yeah. 
all right, I I'm gonna kill the 
