No, you're fine. Yeah should be pretty much like a casual conversation. It's for very open-ended questions. Um, and I'm Gonna Keep very very loose note just to make sure we're kind of retouching on some of the subjects you might bring up in question one all throughout the questions, but feel free tangents anything else you want to bring up that might not be associated with the question. Feel free to just let it let us know. The questions are really there just 
Yeah. 
to guide us. So with that we'll jump into question one. And if you ever need me to rephrase a question or give an example, let me know. So the first one is when you think about Galveston Bay, what are some of the benefits that you think Galveston Bay rides the Gulf of Mexico that could potentially be affected by offshore wind. 
So actually I'm sorry, but say that question again, like one of the benefits of being connected to the Gulf of Mexico. 
What so what benefits of Galveston Bay like what do you think Galveston break brings to the Gulf of Mexico that you think could be affected by offshore wind? 
Yeah, so things that might be impacted from Galveston. I mean, you know, it's the biggest issue would be migration and birds right? So that's sort of the number one issue on my list is how migration is handled. You know both spring and fall migration and what safety measures are put into place to avoid significant impacts. 
All right. So when you think I got some Bay an offshore when you're mostly concerned about the maybe the habitat or the fact that we have migrating birds coming to and from 
Yeah, I mean, let's so habitat. I'm not you know, I'm not worried about habitat impacts. I know there'll be some online connections at some point in the future. But you know, I think those can be addressed and mitigated. Yeah, it's really just you know, flying birds. I mean, that's that's my biggest concern. 
Awesome. Anything else you think besides that you mentioned that you speak on behalf of the people and other resources and that you yourself are us stakeholder. Anything else you think? 
Yeah, I mean, I know some people are concerned about line of sight but I think this is going to be far enough offshore that it's not going to impact people's View and if it does it's like you're barely gonna be able to see it. And I think people sort of need to get used to those. And they are actually I mean, you know, if you go to Galveston at night, you see oil rigs often off on the distance. So, you know, this is not going to be significantly different. So I'm not personally worried about the Aesthetics of it. 
awesome, great point of view Um, so without I'll go ahead and keep going to question two. If any time you want to mention 
Sure. 
anything else go for it. 
Yeah. 
Um, so for question two how specifically do you think offshore WIN Energy might affect the things you've already mentioned like bird migration in both the construction phase and also the daily operation phase. 
Yeah, I mean, I think it has the possibility of significant impacts not necessarily in the construction phase but in the operation phase, you know, there's construction on the Gulf of Mexico again, like all the time of Rigs and things like that. And I think there's best management practices for that to address construction impacts, you know my hope and understanding is that when we are dealing with bird migration, there'll be radar and and things to you know predict when when the worst impacts had be and if need be those turbines will be shut down for short periods of time when they need to be shut down. so You know generally speaking very supportive of offshore wind the concept of Officer away. And I just think we need to ultimately get it right and you know, it can be very positive. If Texas will ever accept it. 
Yes, um, okay so you when it comes to construction you kind of feel like there's already systems in place and that we don't maybe have to worry about that as much but operation. It's kind of the New Frontier that if it gets managed appropriately it might be okay. 
Yeah, I mean that's my again not expert understanding of it, you know, maybe that's simplifying a little too much and probably a simplifying. Well, it's much I'm sure there's going to be some construction impacts. But again You know, there's already a lot of construction and traffic in the Gulf. So it's a working body of water. So it's sort of you know. Not honest to say, oh I'm good with oil rigs, but I'm not good with wind turbines. 
Now it's a great point of view and again. 
How many dogs barking? 
Yeah, sorry. That's my dog. I have a door closed, but she's still 
No worries. 
going and I can't yell at her during 
I love it. 
an interview. 
And can I jump in 
She's like I'm gonna be in there. 
like I normally do. Yeah, she she likes to make yourself known when I'm on a meeting, which is great. 
But nice, that's totally cool. 
can I jump in for a follow-up, Brittany? so you've kind of touched on this a little bit, but 
Sorry for the noise, of course well. 
can I jump in for a follow-up? so you've kind of touched on this a little bit, but I'd like For you to speak a little bit more specifically about the political and social app type for offshore wind in Texas and how it might be similar different to other parts of the country and this can be sort of macro scale but we've we've been learning quite a bit about what makes Texas different in both the social and 
Yeah. 
in both the social and political realm and I'd be curious to see your take on that from where you set 
I mean, you know, it's red state blue State stuff. Right? I mean, so this is you know, a lot of local Texans, you know don't know about onshore or offshore wind and they they see these little memes about all these turbine blades winding up and landfills and yeah, I think it's not real or have no idea how much wind actually, you know creates electricity in Texas. And so we're caught up in this, you know, Joe Biden versus Texas thing that is you know happens to be particularly strong at the moment. And then we have a new general land office commissioner who is very much on board with And who you know, I've never met her personally, but I've heard that she said offshore wind is not going to happen while I'm the general land office commissioner. At least it's not going to connect to the Texas grid, right. So maybe there's a hydrogen element of it or something else. But you know, so there's just very specific political roadblocks in place at the moment, but it all fundamentally just has to do with this like war between Texas and the federal government. On so many friends right? It's just one one front. Right immigration is a major one environment as a whole. I mean, so it's it's not even it's never happened before politically in fact. I've lived in Texas now for almost 30 years now more than 30 years and you know, it's just the way it goes. It just depends on who's President who's not president. 
And so would you say and and sometimes it's hard to disentangle these things that driven more by. 
Yeah. 
political appetite or the knowledge and sort of rhetorics surrounding offshore winds and the environment in 
You know, I think it's definitely 
Texas or 
driven by ideology and politics and not knowledge. Right? 
okay. 
So, you know, you can say glass have full maybe there's opportunity to educate people and I think there is an opportunity to educate people. But it's just so people have blinders on for sure political blinders on and no idea. Generally what they're talking about with the specifics, right? 
Right. Okay, I'll 
And people people in power, you know who should know better may have those blinders on or maybe and you know be a little bit careful what I say here, maybe the general land office commissioner has an opportunity to learn more about the benefits of wind. 
something that you mentioned that I wanted to like see if you could touch on again is you mentioned the comparison to oil and that you said it'd be dishonest for me to say, you know that something happening is that different than oil happening or you know me being against oil for certain reason when it could be somewhere for 
Yeah. 
somewhere for offshore. Um, do you think because there are a little similarities with the construction fees especially of like offshore wind and oil do you think that could be used or is gonna be helpful or how do you think that will play out with the climate with the social political climate? 
I mean, I think that you know, you need to have a comparison between the physical impacts that occur between an oil rig and a wind turbine. And there's a lot of oil rigs out there and you know, the physical impacts are generally I suspect similar, right? So again, like if you're you concerned about whales or something, you know, you hear whales right and I'm not a well expert but the wind turbines are gonna kill all the whales like well, do you have that same concern about oil rigs and Wells right? I mean, so And again, I don't I don't I don't know personally what the if the in proposed or potential impacts to whales have to do with the turbines running or what but I think people pick and choose these, you know internet-based conspiracies to live and die on these days. 
I totally agree with you. 
Yeah, yeah exactly. Right and with no real knowledge. I mean just because we just the same thing about climate change, right? I mean we can have a conversation over a cocktails and talk about this for for hours like most people are 
Yes hours. 
Like most people are applying on it. Don't know anything about it, right it just you know read about on the Internet or hear about it on the talk show and they're not scientists. 
Yeah. It's the reason asked to be discussed over cocktails. 
Yes. 
Absolutely, and your answer was actually a good segue. And the reason why we encourage hearing hearsay and other options is because we want to be able to inform or just follow as well said or at least hopefully get that knowledge out there. So question three is asking um, what do you think might change in the Gulf of Mexico due to Offshore wind doesn't have to be related to your subject matter. It could be what you've heard. What do you think some of the things are you know, that could be happening in the Gulf of Mexico with offshore wind? 
Yeah, I mean clearly there'd be a lot more, you know traffic construction traffic to you know, we're talking about hundreds or thousands of turbines, you know, it's gonna generate more traffic. But again, there's already a lot of traffic out there. I don't know that there's a maximum capacity for traffic out there, you know other than the concern about birds that I mentioned earlier, you know, that's that's a potential impact that has to be studied in mitigated. I see it as not really impacting people, you know, it will provide jobs, you know, there's some people are concerned with on the Gulf Coast. This is another big, you know opportunity for for offshore jobs, certainly, you know, maybe fewer in the long term and more in the more in the construction phase but you know, I think for the average person offshore turbines will have zero impact. Even if you're a fisherman, right, I mean if you if you're an offshore fisherman, they might just provide more habitat for you to go catch snapper. 
awesome 
So, yeah, so very little impact for the average person. 
Great. That's I think some people sometimes get we've had in a lot of interviews are upset when they're like, I don't think much is gonna change but it's actually a very important, you know, 
Yeah, exactly. Like yeah, I don't perceive it as a big deal. 
it's very important to hear that from a lot of people saying like I think we're gonna mostly fine. So we appreciate 
awesome All right. So this to be a last one and then we'll kind of give us a chance to bring up anything else you want to bring up but you've mentioned this a 
Okay. 
couple times already and we've begun to discuss it. So I think we're really interested in your answer to this question from your perspective what management actions could help, you know mitigate or benefit some of the things you've mentioned today with offshore wind. So maybe what kind of management actions would you like to see in regarding burn migration and any other topics we've talked 
Yeah, I mean, I think these are all they're not novel Concepts. I mean and again being a generalist and not not an expert here. But I mean you have to keep an eye out for migration and and you know, I know there will be and when there are already best management practices to avoid, you know killing a bunch of birds during during migration season and there's a lot of technology that can help with that and Ultimately, I think you have to be willing to turn off the turbines shut down the turbines if they're in if at certain periods of time if they need to be shut down. Again, that's that's a that's a Layman's speculation right there, but I think that's probably part of it. So, you know, I I Feel good about the science behind doing that and and tracking it and ensuring that there's you know, not big problems. 
Absolutely, and I think that question when we say management very much lends itself to how do we manage, you know, our resources and specific species. So what management actions would you like seeing with regard to the people and to the stakeholders so maybe communication and information what kind of actions do you think could help? the sociopolitical climate that's a big question, but 
Yeah. Yeah, I mean just more education right? I mean, I know it's it's hard to get through with people aren't really listening but 
Yeah. 
about The realities offshore wind, you know, the fact that really there's not gonna be much impact and but like you're gonna have to demonstrate and prove that to people that's not Respondent' word, you know? 
he also said 
I mean just in in the benefits. I mean I know in Texas, you know, we still have lots of climate deniers and they don't seem really concerned about Renewables and you know, basically think Renewables are bad and they're not dependable and the wind doesn't blow at certain times. And yes, we understand that and so, you know, I think there's a lot of Texas have no idea how much renewable energy is already on our grid, you know from onshore wind and from solar So just you know certainly into the in this may not be at the right place right now. But yeah because well offshore wind, I think the economics are tough but like providing a cheap source of energy is always positive, you know again from what I know. I'm not sure offshore is really there yet and that's why some of these projects are not going forward. But just just emphasizing how important it is to have additional sources of energy is always positive. and you know and I think you know acknowledging that for any source of energy that are gonna be pros and they're gonna be cons. And so, you know, whatever the cons are doing your best to mitigate those cons, which I think is what your sold job is in some ways, right. So, you know for for natural gas, there's pros and cons for solar this pros and cons or you know onshore when there's pros and cons. So just being forthright on the pros. arms, and the belief that the pros outweigh the cons 
Yeah, luckily. We don't have to fix anything. We just have to be like hey, maybe we should look at this just in case we need to fix in the future. 
Yeah, exactly. 
Yeah, we're just trying to eat their information out there for sure. Um, yeah, that's that's really great. So thank you so much for taking the time with that. 
Yeah, 
Is there anything else that I haven't asked you've heard about offshore wind that you want to mention with offshore wind that you want us to consider while you know, looking into things and if you want to get off your chest. 
Yeah. No, I think I've not been shy about all my thoughts, you know again like I am in generalist, right? I mean I've done a lot of reading and try to try to keep up but I but I'm definitely definitely not an offshore wind expert right? So I'm sort of more following the politics of it across the country that I am about the specifics of building the turbines or the actual, you know, real impact from those turban. So, you know, I look forward to learning more myself. So keep doing that education work. 
 
