
Oops, thank you. And before we before we start we usually we start the recording now, but 
to our first question asking about kind of the effects of offshore wind development on Gulf of Mexico ecosystem services and again like will have mentioned these are Want to think about this really broadly and particularly for you guys background and expertise. I'd like you to talk about the potential benefits and potential negative impacts for Gulf of Mexico all for wind development for in terms of like social and economic views, you know, you mentioned jobs in industry. What are what are some of the key benefits and key impacts that you see in Gulf of Mexico after wind development? 
I can kind of start that one but um I would say that one of the key benefits of offer when development in the Gulf of Mexico specifically is the ability to transition or add a alternative or additional job source to the area using a lot of transferable skills that they have been mastering and utilizing for years within oil and 
Yeah, the prospective I would add is 
gas industry. 
I think for me offshore wind is interesting because there's a lot of different places being impacted by you went off for wind development and often those places are and different areas, but they're kind of discrete Point sources. So like providing an example. With an offshore wind plant like those wind turbines are installed at sea, but you have a vessel going from those wind turbines who are poor community so that Port Community that's running area. That's some type of impact, but then, you know, you have a manufacturing facility that might be in another state producing those components. So they're is a ripple effect kind of that economic impact or course development impact spurring out from there. and then you have just you know people coming in from the area to help support that pork to support those construction activities. So I think there's a lot of light sources I guess for economic and Workforce Development like ports manufacturing facilities cable land poll sites that It's different than land-based wind where it has similarities but different where with land base you're putting a wind turbine in a rural community. All those construction workers come into that one community. And so it's a little bit different about ripple effect. I think for offshore when the land-based wind, so that's something I wanted to highlight. 
because you have to be there because to support that you can't can't have people that come in and basically leave you have to have operations that are going to be based locally. 
Um, I think it's more just you're putting the win sight on a on a land mass. And so it's just kind of like everyone kind of comes into that one area. We're with author. Would you have this plant at Sea and so you can have multiple kind of points all supporting that offshore wind project? 
Yeah, I see. now now with that other concerns that those points could be from outside that area and so not necessarily benefit the local community and as far as bringing in kind of like International You know or you know remote. basically expertise work equipment things like that 
I feel like in the Gulf of Mexico at least looking at the US. That's the area that has the most expertise. I would say that's speculating a lot of expertise in terms of offshore development and those industrial like offshore skills. And so when it comes to a domestic Workforce, I think they're uniquely placed to utilize those transferable skills between Industries and square with animation. There's also some conversations that you're hearing about exporting from the Gulf of Mexico and how that's historically been a very like large point source in the US for exporting. So in terms of bringing International Workforce in I mean, there's always that opportunity just because the offshore wind in the street is I would say newer in the US are and so yes that could happen but Gulf of Mexico does have some unique ability in that area. 
Yeah. 
Then I think an example of like International labor. That applies in the Gulf of Mexico, too. It's just this idea of offshore wind vessels and like wind turbine insulation vessels. So the US like if you look at the data shows that we're going to have a big one of the barriers for the industry to develop is that the US does not have any domestic winter installation vessels. There is one that's currently in production. But then you overlay that Jones act which says that a simplest form that you have to use a US flag vessel to take components from the shore. And install them offshore. It but now there's all these creative techniques of like well, we're gonna load up a barge and we're gonna put the barge off to the ocean. Then we're gonna have a wind turbine insulation vessel come out from international waters install that but from a domestic Workforce standpoint that International vessels likely going to be all. At least the Marine crew is going to be mostly International a large part of the construction crew is also going to be International. And so, how do you Work with these local communities that maybe to press Point how these existing skill sets and actually get folks. but construction skills to be on that vessel to install a project and that's I think not in easy answer. 
be on the especially economic impacts and benefits. And if and if any more come up, we'll come back to it. Are there other impacts or benefits from Gulf of Mexico wind energy construction and operation? That we you know want to be thinking about right now. 
I think the one that I went into highlight to was Community benefit agreements, which are agreements between developers and communities to provide some type of investment in that Community as a good faith. Like we're putting the project in your community. We will invest in a school where invest in the court. 
hmm 
I think I can comparing off for when the land-based win to me benefit agreements for a lot more common in the offshore wind industry. and so you are seeing at least write down the East Coast just a ton of developers. Also providing Community benefits. and in a legalized mechanized form to communities, so That's one area, I would. Think we should factor in. and I think it's it's interesting because again, the wind turbines are 
top 
pretty the ocean. It's a better release area. So there are you know, federal government is getting a lot of cash from leasing that area. I think the Gulf of Mexico was one of the first since it's where bone put in policies and a place that said some of those money does have to flow back into the Gulf of Mexico, but that wasn't always the case on east coast. And so I think that's what was driving a lot of these Community benefit agreements is how you help create awareness and support within communities that are going to be impacted since a lot of the money was flowing to the federal government and not necessarily to 
You know you kind of said to start moving around away from the socio economic in or I guess like pros of everything. I do want to bring up just the fact that like more education training development is also happening as a result of all of this. And so whether that's creating new programs or bringing new Research into the area in terms of legal aspects or engineering or Technical Training. That's another big benefit to bring in with offshore winds that we have mentioned yet. 
yeah, and if you guys keep thinking of socioeconomic impacts or benefits. Bring it bring them specially because we really want to tease into you know into your guys's subject matter expertise here. Or as or as new ideas pop up, too. 
or if you have any non socioeconomic a benefits or impacts that we should be thinking about. fire at us 
And like I was saying earlier this is this can be completely speculative. You could be things you've heard or wonder about. And you can caveat it by saying it's something that you don't know about for sure. 
I I think one of the big opportunities for the Gulf of Mexico is the existing manufacturing capacity. That is offshore-based. And I think there is a narrative. That says that a lot of these facilities are well placed to provide components for offshore wind. But I think there is. a lot of uncertainty there just because you do need a really large. Pipeline or projects to actually convert retrofit upgrade these facilities. And so I think there is a risk. for those management existing manufacturing supply chain facilities not actually to participate because the Gulf of Mexico currently doesn't have a big enough pipeline. And it's been hard enough to set up domestic manufacturing presence on the East Coast. I did someone over promise in the Gulf of Mexico as well. 
but 
speculative 
by pipeline, I mean like figurative pipeline of Like a supply chain. pipeline 
Yeah pipe. 
And so announcement we're talking about actual. 
Yeah. 
because there's that that you have to 
like because the power has to get on shore. through cables pipe 
I think pipeline here was being defined as enough offshore wind plants lined up like enough capacity that will be installed in the Gulf of 
Yeah. 
Mexico that it makes it economically viable to actually develop manufacturing capacity or retrofit existing capacity 
What as a follow-up what would drive? the the demand or sort of the appetite for for that level of like Forward Thinking and planning in an industry like this is that Economically driven, does it feel politically or socially driven and like I said this can be speculation, too. 
I can jump in I'll go ahead bring. 
Like you're saying what? Okay. Oh, no, I was just gonna repeat the question. So you're just saying like what would drive a supply chain to get set up in this region? Like whether it's economic social 
Yet. 
political all the 
Yeah, because my reading on that response was basically saying, you know, if we're we're gonna be counting on this sort of positive economic benefit and the investment necessary to really take advantage of the opportunity that you see in the Gulf of Mexico. There's gonna be a need for you know, a consistent flow of projects and and you know manufacturing and construction maintenance labor needs what would drive sort of that that level of demand and what would be sort of like Yeah, The Universal motivation for for that quantity and like level of planning and projects. 
um, but I mean speaking generally because definitely more of a Workforce expert than supply chain expert, but I think you Right. Now what? It's all the above. It's economic meaning one the price of steel and inflation I think is a driving Factor right now in terms of setting up manufacturing supply chain from an economic standpoint like you have to have communities that are a grid that's willing to pay the price and actually I'll take it and needs that additional true and power but then I think you do have this like social political as well with You know boom hat is the one that's leases off her wind off the Gulf of Mexico. So having a Call areas come online having to developers going to. It into those and then have it streamline permitting process that allows. Certain team with projects will be developed. I guess those are all like some of the factors that come to mind, but Sure, there's a host of other ones. What am I What 
Now I was just gonna kind of double down on the idea of certainty. I feel like we hear about that a lot in terms of like certainty of the project being built is able to help the certainty of Labor being developed which then in turn helps 
Yeah. 
the certainty of a project being built if you know that there's labor there and so it's kind of this like Chicken and the Egg situation that's hard to overcome especially with all of the external like supply chain factors and macroeconomic issues that are going on. So I'd say that's one of the major driving forces that we hear about at least 
and I think that brings up a good point just in terms of like the timing aspect of Workforce Development and you know you often have to start training folks a couple years out to support that facility or to have the right training certifications to support that offshore wind plant. but if there's not certainty in You know when that plant is construction is actually going to start and how do you back up and convince like an education training program to want to set up a program or workers wanting to be excited to be like yes, if I start this program? Today I'm guaranteed a job three years from now. and that's that time in alignment is a real struggle and Workforce Development then definitely has has and impact on the maximizing economic benefits 
You know and I just wanted to chime in with a couple more things. I feel like there's some other external factors such as like the transmission needs to be upgraded across the US actually be able to take off take that energy development and there needs to be these vessels built which is what Jeremy was talking about where we only have like one wind turbine installation vessel being built right now, but Across the Nation will need more and in Europe, there's already gonna be bottlenecks and on there side of things too. And so I feel like all of that coming together is having a lot of issues within offshore wind, but 
Yeah, I think that's what we kind of want here now is kind of branching out into these like future thinking speculations. How's the Gulf of Mexico different from other areas of the US and also the world? And regards to these things. 
Stakeholder engagement wise I feel like that's one of the major differences that we've been hearing about because the people are used to seeing offshore Industrial Development. Whereas in like New England Northeast area, they're not and so stakeholder engagement is a completely different story of acceptance there versus in the Gulf of Mexico where the ideas not as hard to accept in in the sense of what they're seeing offshore at least 
But there is that other Maybe. political element of this is green energy clean energy and just like this is a new different form and I think acceptance could very very differ very from each state to state across the Gulf of Mexico region. And maybe that has a factor on who's willing to all take that power. And who's willing to incentivize both? But like funding for education programs for Workforce Development or incentivize the development. of those plants and who's willing to put pause is a place as well to make it easier to develop them. 
Maybe we were hearing to. how so like within the inflation reduction actors the energy communities like bonus to some of these tax credits that can help incentivize development but if ports in the area are not considered an energy Community than they're losing out on potentially like a 10% bonus, which is a lot when it comes to a tax credit in these really Capital intensive developments. And so kind of going along with that. It's important that policies in place that can help incentivize it for the region of the gulf. I think it's like Court this is speculation in Port Bouchon that it's not considered an energy Community, but it's a major location for potential in our connection or Manufacturing. 
and I wanted to 
You know. 
Go ahead. Yeah. 
or I was gonna say one other thought too is just it'll be interesting to see how the region develops collectively I think that's you're asking about like differences between the Northeast and the Gulf of Mexico. And I think there has been a fair amount of competition between states and the Northeast and so like a New York, New Jersey and who's going to get that tier one manufacturing facility and who's getting the power and how many workers from my state is going to help support that plant. So I can think that had You know if we Round the Clock like how do we develop Regional collaboration so that you're kind of spreading those economic benefits and Workforce benefits around of region. and I don't have the answer of how you actually set up those planning processes, but I think it would have been beneficial if that happened in the east coast and maybe there's still time in the Gulf of Mexico. 
the Gulf of Mexico has you know just thinking ahead and so there's time to think about it. It seems like there's a lot of you know, as you mentioned, you know, the existing manufacturing commit capacity and a lot in the expertise of the oil and natural gas and then also different like mentioned stakeholder perceptions of just seeing stuff in the water okay with it. but I want to ask about though is when key piece that's missing and I'd like you guys thoughts on it is that the developers aren't? As interested as in the Northeast as a parent by resale prices. If you're just look at play prices there, you know, the Texas leases didn't sell. the Louisiana lease sold for five million dollars How does that change some of these thoughts or come, you know ideas, you know, like for instance incentivizing? You know who we ask? you know like if you know for funding for instance if we're trying to almost entice development rather than tax it is that are we still able to do you see us still being able to get some of these like Community benefits? Or does it change? How the Gulf of Mexico would communities want to go about this? 
I think speculating on yet the question around Why Eric developers is interested. It may be it feels like a longer play right? The Gulf of Mexico is a couple years for their out and development. You still have the uncertainty and Engineering wind turbines for the hurricane environment in the financial affiliate Insurance risk associated with that. I heard that, you know and back to the political uncertainty like The Gulf of Mexico is maybe there's less state level policies or differences between states. Excitement around offshore wind and maybe that's a driving factor and who's winning leases? and so yeah, it's it's erases an interesting question because like what if there is only one Gulf of Mexico and plan installed? and in that case you're probably I would speculate. importing most of your Workforce like you're bringing in folks from the East Coast for one project. To support the building and development of it. You're probably importing most of your components and so it's kind of like One and done. I think Community still receive those Community benefit agreements because I think to get that permanent to get it built offshore. You're still getting you're likely going to get some of those directed correct investments and since the communities those communities are going to receive some type of ripple effect from out of state out of region workers coming into their community and at least spending some funds on restaurants businesses and those communities there'll be like one or two years of that induced impact that ripple effect, which Is important for communities and enroll America with land Basin as well? And I think you still get the like operations and maintenance Crystal going to get some long-term staff from those communities involved, but I don't think with one plant you develop a sustained long term Workforce. Which I think we've started the conversation talking about. Is could be realized in the Gulf of Mexico. speculating 
yeah. 
this is also speculating with it, but even with one plant, I do feel like the Gulf of Mexico has the potential to at least export expertise in the workforce to places like New England because there are a lot of people who do work offshore. Now that have skills or certifications that may be less. I guess concentrated in New England just because of the lack of development. but that being said, I think another aspect of why I guess the least sales were not as like I guess like sought after for lack of better words against much. speculation could be the timing of it like it was kind of going on right when everything supply chain wise in the New England Northeast area was going like kind of downhill and so when you're dealing with all of that up, there is a developer. It's hard to focus your attention on wanting to do a new lease in area that may be more uncertain than what you're already having to deal with too. So, I think that's another aspect of Holly played into it. 
But it's really interesting and to think about because there's gonna be feedbacks. Here and maybe one or something could serve as a pilot. But yeah, that's it does plot a different course, you know if Is you only if you only have one or two or you know a couple that come up rather than a whole industry that there's almost that Opia feedbacks of that supporting a whole local industry rather than an imported. Workforce 
What? 
But it or and I think that to bring adding on to brinn's point though about like training locals for workers locally. I still think like these initiatives that are happening in the city, Louisiana around setting up like the University of New Orleans is developing training programs and like Collegiate University type programs like I still think those are extremely useful no matter how the like how the workforce develops Jeremy's getting another region involved in students have the opportunity from those communities to be able to go. Actually learn about after wind and support the gulf or some other region. Like there's no reason you can't still train people in that region to support them again that National Industry so 
yeah, they don't have the workers 
yes. 
trained in the University of you know, and Louisiana University just don't necessarily have to work on Gulf of Mexico when turbines they could. And you actually exporting expertise. What? what you know in this gets resuming out to even more speculative, you know, if if you had the power. How could management support? some of these the benefits that have been mentioned and then also help mitigate. The potential impacts. So it's in the benefits I have in in my notes or you know, mostly surrounding economic opportunities, you know, utilizing existing manufacturing Construction. Marine industry infrastructure that's in the region supporting training and you know Workforce Development. These are just a couple that I have kind of been in my notes. If you were if you're an omniscient manager or all-powerful manager. manager. Knowing what you know, how how could some of those be? How could management help these? 
Management or or policy too? 
or policy one 
Yes, just thinking broadly if you could wave wave your wand and and Implement some sort of Statute or rule that would. Prop up positive impacts and mitigate negative impacts. 
um, I think For me something that popped it by my mind was thinking this like Regional Coordinating Board. Like if we are in the Gulf of talking about the entire call from Mexico ecosystem like you need to get books together in a room to talk about these issues and like what's and again like the people doing on the groundwork too? So like a Workforce Development? Like board under this larger like Regional collaboration. is one thought the other thought like going back to community benefit agreements. It it that's like a tricky one, right? It's just like You want to give like right now? local communities you want to empower them to be able to get the most reward for their Community or incentives for their communities, but you also don't want to make the project financially or economically like not viable and so like there is this like Middle Ground a little bit in there. So I I hesitate like it kind of feels like a little bit of the Wild West in terms of community benefit agreements on the East Coast. So I don't know what that looks like in terms of policy. Other than just I mean making sure that developers are talking with those. local communities where the ports going to be where the manufacturing facility could be where the cable landfall is like at least dating that you have to do some type of being engagement or provide some type of benefits or make sure that they're accurately distributed. Those were all very general statements. 
Okay. 
What's on your 
I was going to say like Again, this is very speculative but like standardization of whether it's certifications or trainings or quality standards or safety standards for that matter would be helpful to I guess at least build awareness of what's needed in the industry. So it's a policy to support the standardization would be. Maybe a good action. Streamlining permitting is always. On top of the list. I'm sure you guys have heard that a million times. So those are two of them and then also making sure that the policies and the economic development that Jeremy was talking about when it goes into Community benefits is really focused. on this Advantage communities or historically underrepresented communities and having the policy behind it even more so than what like the IRA for example is providing. 
I actually I wanted oh, 
in another thought 
Oh, sorry, please God. 
or just the final thought that I had was some type of agreement between education and training programs on who's doing what I think would be super helpful, especially now in the Gulf of Mexico if you can get Community colleges universities kind of layout I am this University. I am going to focus on like after win ball. I and this University and I'm going to focus on this area of ultra wind and maybe on this Community College. I have a welding program. Let's get ready to registered apprenticeship program and this is going to be my role. I think a little bit on the East Coast what you've seen is people got excited and people just start throwing up programs, but there wasn't like a whole lot of coordinating and who's doing what and then people got really excited about gwo and everyone started putting up video gwo training facilities and maybe every labor union or apprenticeship program or Community College doesn't need one. But can we have a regional Hub or everyone can get trained? 
I I wanted to touch on one thing that I've heard you guys speak about before and it's been reference a little bit earlier which is sort of this incentivization on the developer side and especially in the form of you know, tax credits or ways to sort of lighten the load on those who are concerned about the economic viability from the developer side of things. I know you guys have you're pretty well versed in that I'd love your take on the current landscape of you know, tax incentives and credits. related to Offshore wind and here if they're any changes that you guys would make to that infrastructure if you were King for a Day. 
Well, I know this is brinn's favorite topic. So I'm going to let her go first. 
I can speak out length to prevailing wage with and apprenticeship requirements within the IRA and what I've heard from both sides whether it's unions or non-unions in terms of What they would change within the policy I think. Just to start broadly text credits are a great way to incentivize development. However, the reason why it was in the form of a tax credit was so that Congress could pass it past like the filibuster. It had it was not necessarily the best tool to use but it's the one that they could get past which I think is beneficial. It's like you can't have you know, I think it's like not failure. It's but you can't have Perfection be like the enemy of progress and so there's that but in terms of prevailing way to apprenticeships if it was me, um, I probably wouldn't want the like good faith exemption necessarily as broadly within the tax credits as it is. So like it's it's pretty wide ranging at this point which allows for a lot of loopholes to get around being paying failing wage or doing the Richer friendship requirements which are hard to meet. But that's me personally that doesn't have to do with anything if I was waiting for the day. I would probably make that less. forgiving but Jeremy you can happen to 
um, I guess a couple of my thoughts was just yeah. figuring out how how we make sure that the intended reasons of why the prevailing wage and apprenticeship requirements like making sure the reason they were intended and put into law uncomfort fruition because it end of the day the reason they put those requirements in it's because they were trying to increase job quality for like clean energy jobs. And so we want to increase wages everyone increased skill sets and both wages and benefits for workers and basically help create a wet. Do we Department imagery? We call a good job. And so they put those requirements in place to help the industry move towards that direction. And so to friends point just making sure that Developers You know, don't that they try to at least meet the intent of law as I do one thing. We haven't talked about is between oil and gas affiliate offshore. and offshore wind there is a wage differential that exist that the perception is that offshore wind does not pay as well as offshore oil and gas. and so if you talk about adjust transition you talk about workers wanting to migrate over like there's a lot of benefits to a WIN Job versus an oil a gas job in terms of maybe safety or quality or just like stability, but there's also I would I think the data does show that afterward is paying less right now. So 
what level I know it's generalized but like considerably less or do you have an idea of percentage or how much less? 
and the only 
what level I know it's generalized but like considerably less or do you have an idea of percentage or how much less and all for one job is compared to an oil and gas job. 
I don't have a percentage off the top of my head. 
The perception is that it's it's less. 
just 
And I think if you look at the wage data and you compare jobs, there is a a difference but it's hard to compare because are they entry level as that oil and gas worker but in the industry for a long time like, you know, I but I I think in general that statement holds true. 
Okay. 
and I think the other thought that I wanted to share around like tax incentives and just it's impact on the industry is in my view the inflation reduction Act was a incentive to Spur deployment of renewable energy technology. And had Workforce implications like prevailing wage and apprenticeship programs. But the inflation reduction Act was not a Workforce investment. Necessarily so I think there is this Gap where? Education and training programs I think would say they would like to see some more funds as well because right now the taxes is going to the developer who has a Workforce need but who is an incentivizing training programs to be able to set up the curriculum and the training that's needed to provide. for this increased appointment 
I'm looking at the the time here. So usually at this point we we leave space for any other loose ends that have been rattling around in your guy's heads or Holden. If you have any Islands in your your mental model that you'd like these guys to populate I think. Now is now is the time to to speak now or hold your peace. You're good. What about you guys? 
to 
Are are there any other sort of like loose threads impacts Concepts ideas that you guys haven't had the latitude to express. 
Just maybe the one additional thing is like there are different phases of all. Offshore wind development and deployment so there's the development phase manufacturing supply chain. There's Construct Maritime construction, there's operations and maintenance. In each one of those phases kind of impacts communities differently. And I think there's like different touch points of who can be domestic who can be International. You can be in region at a region. So just to keep that in mind as we're doing the mapping is like there's lots of different roles. Lots of different players. It's very complex ecosystem that 
I think that's a good place to leave off. So I will 
