most of it so 
All right. Well, what are the what types of Charters do you run? 
I run offshore inshore and fly fishing primarily I'd say 80% offshore and then I do everything from mangrove red snapper Cobia fishing, you know, 30 to 50 miles all the way out to the Tunas and the Marlin, you know all the way out to Walker's Ridge. you know Green Canyon, you know, Mississippi Canyon all of All of that so you know it I could be as close to 15 miles at the Loop drillships catching Cobia. I could be as far as you know, turatello on Walker's Ridge or all the way over to the flower to the flower gardens, you know, cool all that kind of stuff doing the groupers and so really just depends on the day where I'm at and what I'm doing 
Okay. To kind of do it all so yeah start talking about wind in you know. As it relates to you know, this like, you know key ecosystem service of Fisheries. What what are some of the impacts that you're thinking about for offshore win? And so for impacts being both potential positives and potential negatives from offshore wind development and then for offshore for the development both construction and operation phases of kind of 
Yeah. 
anticipated development. 
yeah, so I mean all the like the number one thing that comes to mind right that that is both a positive and I guess more of a positive not is what makes the Gulf of Mexico famous for offshore fishing is our oil rigs. Right. So everything from the closing rigs that hold the mangroves the red snappers the dog Snappers the gag groupers, you know where we're going and tying off the rigs and doing that all the way out. You know Mad Dog Bigfoot Tahiti in the canyon where you know, we're holding the Tunas and the Wahoo, and the Mahi and the white morning the blue marlin like That's one of the things that has. Propelled our fishery to where it is that keeps me busy. And so that you know having more structure that Coral is gonna grow on and provide, you know more homes for for these, you know, fish sounds awesome, right? and especially with the really the recent, you know, the last 10 years of them removing rigs, especially those insure rigs like in the South pin the ship show blocks where they're used to just be rig after rig after rig after rig that you could go, you know, mostly refinish a little bit of Wahoo Fish a little bit of plastic sometimes in the winter. You know, we're seeing those disappear. So if wind energy is gonna kind of come in and replace some of those especially in some desirable water depths and places then like That's awesome. That's more structure good for the fish like I'm in on that. My only concern in that is is the live bottom. So, you know when you're looking at like the Marine CAD Cadre Cadre always get that word wrong, but that's one of my favorite tools to go in there and play and look at the the coral density and the maps on there and we have a bunch of coral on the Gulf of Mexico. So we're putting in structures that are gonna be contacting the bottom, you know, even though that Coral may be able to come back in those things but with leaking and kind of the state of coral in general and and the things that it faces the challenges it faces, my one concern is cool we go put all these rigs in but you know, for example You know say we wiped out all of viewing Bank in the process putting all these things in well, I'd be really sad, you know, because that's where my favorite places to go catch fire back groupers and kitty Mitchells and all that cool stuff. So, you know That's kind of my relationship with it is I'm all for it. As long as we don't go in there and you know wipe out a couple hundred square miles of coral to put it in. 
makes sense now before you you said 
so 
Now before you you said that as long as these are in desirable water depths what? What's kind of the death range that would be you know most value for you and other depths, you know that this could be in the you know, like is less valuable for you. 
well, I would. you know, that's a that's a interesting question. I think. If I had to really put a depth to that of like the types of fish that I would probably Target around them which would probably be mangroves red snappers cobias. And then maybe some offshoots of like, you know gag groupers and different types of Snappers and stuff. That would be around them. you know those Waters could be a shallow as a hundred a hundred 120 feet as deep as 250 and you know, the mangroves are known to come in closer. I don't typically Target them in closer water. You know, sometimes the shallows like 80, but that's more of a pressure thing. So like if we had a bunch more stuff and 80 to 100 foot that was holding a bunch of mangroves then maybe I would be more inclined to go into those shallower depth. I would say anything that I would consider not desirable would probably be less than like. 70 feet just because now most of the fish that I Target that would really limit me to like maybe just Cobia on them which Would be super cool if I had a bunch of single pylons, like couple hundred of them. I go find my Cobia every day on them. You know, that'd be super cool if they were on my way, but I don't know if there'd be much benefit to them being there. For me saying I'm gonna go plan my whole Charter around. Hey, I'm going to the to the wind farm, you know, but if it was in a hundred and eighty feet of water and I was like, oh Oh, we're going we're going to the wind farm boys. They're gonna have scamps yellow mouth. You know, there's gonna be gags on it. We can go find red snapper. We can go find dogs Snapper. We can go find our Cobia like I would probably do whole days, you know knowing hey, I'm gonna go to this block where the water looks good right now. I know the water depths are good. I know the structure is there. You know, I may go plan whole days around going there. It really just depend on you know, like I said where they're at and All that good stuff. But if I had to put a depth to it about desirable versus undesirable, you know, I think that like that's 70, you know shallow shallower than 870 somewhere around there would probably be that would be that numbers what I would consider. An undesirable for me. 
mmm So and it sounds like that's best for. Holden you know the refresh complex does and before you also mentioned, you know with the oil and gas for Holden pelagics, you know, tuna's Mahi and Wahoo, and Phil fish and things like that other DC potential for oil for wind to To you know bring in those as well. 
Yeah, so and there there's a good. you know, I don't know much about the I guess like the superstructure or the design of these these windmills, right? So, um, I'm thinking about them in I guess the the format of the connected rigs that we have like all the way out to the Shelf Rigs and they have rigs that are in you know. 500 600 a thousand I think all the way I think the deepest ones like right at like 1100 feet of water which I could be wrong, but I fished himself freaks that are you know, they're they're down there. Um, and you know the Wahoo's and the winner when we're catching them at Ewing bank. There's there's shallows like 240 comes to kind of seems to be their favorite water depth they like to hang in in and around the bank. So, you know if there was 20 windmills right off of Ewing Bank in 240 feet of water, then I immediately would be like, yeah when there's Blue Water there in the winter, you know, no October through February. Um, yeah, but I would a hundred percent believe that there would be Wahoo's on them and you know Bonita and black fans and stuff like that. Now if they did were able to put these in in places where there was a thousand foot of water or even you know build floating ones that were out there in Green Canyon, you know, you're saying hey I could dip off from Tahiti and there's 30 windmills in a row, you know in three thousand foot of water that are anchored down. I mean I don't see why there wouldn't be tuned as a Mahi is a Marlin and things hanging out there because it's it's no different than the oil rigs and it's no different than you know, a buoy or a tree that's floating out there any structure in that deep of water. that has good water and good current is gonna have bait and if there's bait the pelagics will follow so 
listen 
you know, but that just I guess my question and that is I haven't seen how they're gonna build them how they're gonna put them on the ground or You know connect them to the bottom to keep them in one place. So, you know that that's where like my it may be completely impractical to put them in Green Canyon, but if they could Be kind of cool. 
Well, I'm honestly not super familiar with that area. But I know that the you know, the First sale of wind energy area in the Gulf of Mexico. Is that Lake Charles block that sold, 
Yep. 
you know the end of August have you looked at that and you know is that how's that overlap with your fishing ground? And what are your thoughts for like that specific wind sale? 
Yeah that area. 
Yeah. 
So that Lake Charles block I guess would would be on really on our western edge of our fishing grounds now. Not saying that we don't do some. 36 and 48 hour trips where you know, we're pushing further into the flower gardens and over there in it's like East Cameron block and all that stuff. You know, I did a trip to East Cameron a few months ago and it is some of the best bottom fishing the further west you go in the Louisiana and you start at Port fourchon the better the bottom fishing gets, you know, the bottom topography tends to be a little bit flatter. There's also less fishing pressure out that way with Venice and Grand Isle and then you know, Because the run to the offshore pelagic is a lot further out there. There's less offshore boats there tends to be more the further east you go the more pressure you find so You know the East Cameron blocks that stuff out of Lake Charles man. It's it's incredible bottom fishing. In for everything from you know, red snappers to amberjacks to warsaws, you know, obviously your mangroves but even the Exotics right? So that's what we say. I make a little bit of my name off of that like me and Joey and the guys We really do spend a lot of time targeting the the firebacks the kitty Mitchell's the black the dog Snappers going out and doing the barrels and the queens and the yellow edges and the glass eyes and you know, the Rosie's alphonsinos in different stuff, you know, there's fish there that are a thousand feet of water in this fish. There are 50, but we spend a lot of Time bottom fishing and so we go west a lot like our Aren't it's not out of the question for us to be jacula Parker's which is just a probably a little bit over halfway into that that East Cameron. I think Parker's is like a hundred and twenty miles west southwest for for us. So You know that area in particular if there was something like that out there in the fishing was good enough, you know, three four years after him being there was like look man, we're gonna go pull up to the wind farm out of Lake Charles. We're gonna go catch our 24 grouper. We're gonna catch our skin cancer yellow Mouse may catch Kitty Mitchell may catch black, but then we also have the access to the mangroves the red snappers and I could put together a really good box like that and then maybe dip deep on my way home and do some deep dropping and maybe some swordfishing or something out there. Even you could even look at hitting Magnolia just out, you know south of there for the Tunas like that would open up an opportunity to us to develop some type of trip that hey we're gonna do a 48 a 48 hour trip to the wind farm and this is kind of what you guys can expect. So yeah while that's not something that necessarily I'm gonna go to every day. It may be something that I have some groups of clients that are really into that a particular type of fishing that could be highlighted in that area because of the wind farm and say hey, I'm gonna do pin trips a year 12 trips a year. They're 48 hour trips into that area. And you know now you're looking at 24 to 30 days a year being spent over there. so And that's just the possibility, you know depends exactly where they put them in and all the things but it is very possible that in that area. It could generate some phenomenal phenomenal fishing, especially for the reef fish. 
You call to have win trips. And so I'm just curious. You know, this is I don't know how far out we're getting on the speculation. But you know Bowen as Bowman is basically kind of said from one more understanding is that they don't plan to restrict any fishing access during the operational phase of of the Wind farms, like when they build them, you know, they don't want people nearby but that'll be kind of just don't during that phase then once they open up, you know, it's it's gonna clearly active fishing gears. I'm gonna be able to go by there because you can't draw on that through there because it's something the way but they're basically said that they plan it to be opened hook in line fishing. Now in Europe and other places, they don't allow any fishing there. And so just something this is like totally just you know, this is not coming from a government, you know, like even idea. This is my own thoughts as like, you know, Marine ecologist. You know how it could look if some areas were open and other areas were closed. So they acted as like protected areas. I'm just curious like as a fisherman in that area. Is that something that you think would people would come out with pitchforks? Or because there wasn't anything there. They might be like well, we we have something now and then maybe these areas act as Refuge. 
oh, so this is the the week. Okay. So this is this is definitely um, I have two answers to this to to kind of different scenarios. Um, so one would be as a whole, you know, as long as there was Some access right? If you went into the Gulf of Mexico and you said hey, we're putting a two-mile CPA on every oil rig and every Wind Farm because if you did it for the wind farms like that, then that would then give the oil field, you know. Kind of the leg to stand on to do that for them as well. And also I think there's there's probably more risk involved with the active oil production facilities than the wind farms themselves. So I think there's a reason they haven't done that with them. But if if it was like an all or nothing like yeah, I think I think the response would be pretty pretty negative. If it was an all or nothing if it was set up where it was like Hey, like, you know, there's areas of the flower gardens that you can't go fish at a marine that are Marine sanctuaries, right and, you know close to commercial fishing even close to some recreational fishing and as a guy who makes his living on that. I'm cool with that. Like if we have the right to enjoy the water, we also have the responsibility to take care of the resource that we're using and I think there's a strong there's a strong feeling of that in. In the guys who are professional and who do this all the time because we understand that this is a resource not not an unlimited resource it it can be if we take care of it, but it can also be depleted if we abuse it. um as the general guys who fish and this is where things get tricky. So if you look at say a block and just Louisiana Louisiana comes from a very very very very very strong kill culture mentality right dating all the way back to how this was a really poor economy and the marsh and the water. Fed, a lot of people they learned to live off the land more than being able to go and purchase the crops and stuff they need and that continues to this day. You can see that in the fight that we've had for the trout limits the fight that we're having for the red fish limits, you know, even how people feel about the red snapper Management in our state so there would definitely be individuals and people who are Weekend Warriors for the lack of a better word who are gonna go fishing five times eight times a year. Maybe that's not and their goal when they leave the dog Is the kill and murder? Everything that swims, right? and you know That's that's cool and all you have a right to the water. But then there's that that Dynamic of well. How much are you taking right and I'm a charter guy in Louisiana that it's really hard sometimes so I look at clients be like hey you have enough, right? So to have some areas that were protected makes that easier for me to go. Oh, we can't fish there guys full. Well knowing that the mangroves spawning a half a mile on this one. It's nothing for them to swim a half a mile, you know, because they'll get to a population point where it those rigs can only sustain so much so they'll just go to the next rig over and the next rig over and the next rig over and yeah, I'll go catch all my mangroves. You know a half a mile outside of that that protected zone. So like I'm not against that but I could see some possible, you know. Who are you to tell us we can't fish our water based off. How much was closed? And you know to what to what extent that it was closed, you know, so there was affiliate was there and presented to the public right where it was like hey. there's thousand windmills, but 20% of them are closed. I feel like you'd be okay. And I don't know what that number is and where that line is where people would be upset. But if you were like there's a thousand windmills, you can't fish a single one. There would probably be some really upset individuals. Especially with the rigs being pulled up at the rate that they are to those ensure rigs because now you're you're 
mmm 
taking one thing away from them where they were able to fish and say well Hey, here's this new thing but you can't go fish it. so that that would be I could see where a dilemma would possibly Arise there, depending how that was, you know going about. 
Yeah, that's really insightful and I'll just say again. That's that's my own like my own curiosity is not represent the government stands on on this something. you know we've been today again and a lot to like, you know, the fishing impacts, you know, because that's where you have, you know, the Local expertise on this but I also wanted to ask you about because you live in this community. You know, do you other impacts for you know again positive and negative that you're thinking about to like, you know, beyond beyond fish and Fisheries? and to like, you know other people that in that the community where you live 
Yeah, well more job, you know for these things to be there. First off you're gonna have to have people who put them in there's still a piece of equipment. So they're gonna have to be maintenance, you know, they're gonna have to be you know, taking care of there's gonna be people out there welding and fixing things like, you know, they're There is most definitely the positive side of that is hey, there's gonna be more jobs and even for as we've seen the oil industry shift to a more. You know more floaters. There's less insure rigs, you know. There's a whole section of crew boats that were designed for going to rig, you know rigs say 50 miles an end. And I don't know the exact number on that but they're smaller crew boats that aren't going 200 miles off that are sitting tied up along everybody in Louisiana right now. So if all of a sudden you came in like yeah, there's a couple thousand windmills out there and we got where we need to put them in and these big massive crew boats that are built for going 300 miles don't really fit that purpose. We need a smaller faster day, you know day crew boats that go out They ride out there in the morning do there. their job come home at night things like that. that could Revitalize that whole part of The Louisiana economy, you know that was oil field and is now not as not as big of a part of the oil field. So that's cool. I definitely don't see it taking jobs away from the oil industry. you know from from What is the word I'm looking for environmental standpoint? I mean Yeah, when they'll still have to have oil in them to grease their bearings and they're still a piece of equipment. But if one if if one windmill breaks and it dumps 5,000 gallons of oil in there, that is microscopic. microscopic to the possibility the environmental impacts of you know, one oil rig going up and we've seen that with BP and the various other little oil spills and stuff, but what they call little Is it's still probably what the entirety of a Winfield Farm, you know Wind Farm could do if they all broken dumped in the water at once. Would probably be the size of a tiny one that the oil field considers. So, you know. from an environmental standpoint like off the top of my head from what I know about wind energy. I don't see a lot of possible negative negative impacts to the community or the environment, you know, unless somehow one started like they all art together and start, you know shocking. A couple hundred miles of fish like you know, but I don't see how that's possible. So. From that standpoint. I see most almost all positives. You know. I think I'd really have to come up with some crazy scenarios to come up with some negatives in that that would be pretty out there, you know, as far as The realm of possibility so that's cool. You know, like it's good for the environment and it's good for more people making money and we even have a dying shrimp industry right now with with foreign with foreign imports on shrimp and shrimpers who are are not going fishing because they can't make money but you say man. we can rent your boat for a day to go to the to the wind farm and go take supplies and go take welders and that like That's a win even on days. Oh, hey, I don't have a trip. But oh man, we need to go do a survey to wind farm. Come on, I'll take you like, you know, so that that's a win possibly for me and and so like I'm in on that, you know, More days on the water is more money. So 
You know. 
Okay, can't complain. 
What are ways that? You know, it's it sounds like you know seeing well, you know most positive impacts for fish and Fishers, you know, and then potentially jobs. You know in the community. What are ways that you know? You know as we kind of pull that together that we can try to recommend, you know, management and research actions that you know can help kind of. Get the most out of those benefits and optimize those and then if you know, if you do think of any like potential, you know negatives what could management don't be done. You know, what ways you see that management could be implemented to mitigate those. 
He so. you know kind of back originally I said the The big negative for me. The one thing that would make me go. Okay. Hold up would be you know. What's happening to the current bottom that's being put in right so. 
Yeah. 
So I I kind of relate that in my mind like how solar Farms work. Okay, you come in you take like couple hundred acres of rice fields one turned into a solar farm. Well, that's no longer a right field. That's no longer habitat for ducks and and things of that nature that would possibly use that Rice Field at different times of the year Hogs run, you know, deer whatever and some of those species would still use it and it would look different. But in the implementation of putting those on the ground what's happening to our existing coral and reef structures that are there? That's the single that's the thing for me as like hey, okay. We can't kill the reefs like that. That's the one that's the one I will go tie myself to a win thing and say run me over the bulldozer. You're not killing my roots, right? But you know, I think we already have such a good idea about what Reef exists out there and what densities there are. You know, what is the state of the reef in the area that they're looking at putting these in like we have that information to just Not you know, oh. Hey, maybe it's kind of like tree farm. So they have SMD zones, you know stream management zones. Hey, there's a reef that runs right through the middle of this. We're not gonna allow them to put a windmill within a quarter a mile. You know north south east or west of this Reef. But if on the edge of that Reef, it's mud. Go for it. Like now all you're doing is putting more. Now, you're bettering the golf bottom. So, you know, and I don't know and I'd have to look at the zones and compare to all the stuff to like actually get an idea of what type of coral is living in those exact areas and And thankfully that's not my job. But I would like for it to be somebody's job to to do that. the management for On the flip side of that like to continued management once they're in. You know, obviously we don't want certain things going into the water oils batteries, you know stuff of that nature and obviously hopefully these things are gonna be built to a level in which they're you know, like oil rigs. They're gonna be there for a while and there's redundancies in place. but you know, I don't know. I think that's where I'd have to see one when it was put in or see the plans on how they're gonna put it in. How long is that structure gonna be there? What what chemicals what fluids what maintenance has to be done to them before I could really come up with like a oh, this is how I could see us managing them, you know in inappropriate way. Because there's a lot of questions there that I don't I don't necessarily know before I could speak. Speak on it. 
is there is there any ways that you know, we compare these a lot to you know oil and gas? You know and it basically for the structure and I know you said, you know, you kind of have to wait and see what the superstructure looks like. That's kind of one thing. Are there any you know are there? any other things that you're thinking about that these are kind of different than oil and get might be different than oil and gas. I guess you mentioned. Well, you mentioned the big one that they're not gonna you know. poor billions of barrels of oil in the 
yeah. 
But yeah, I just want to I just want to make sure I captured that if there's you know any other you know, potential differences from oil and gas that we might want to be 
well 
at this time. 
They're definitely not gonna have the same pipelines that the oil rigs use and run across the bottom. That's one thing too is how are they, you know, What's their method for getting the power that generated out there back on to land and the infrastructure has to be set up and went in the land and one of the big things for me there is you know, not the offshore but the ensure so if you look at how the oil industry impacted. 
impacted the marsh with dredging and all that kind of stuff and you know all the inshore rigs that they have and all the stuff in the marsh and how that's played into Coastal erosion and stuff like that. That's that's would be kind of my big concern there is hey if we're doing this out of Lake Charles and we got to build a port fish on over there. Well, how are we gonna build a port that's gonna service these these wind farms. How are we going to build that Port where it doesn't you know, promote Coastal erosion. Hey, we're gonna have to have power stations along the coast that are pulling in this power and pumping, you know, and then pushing that power into homes or wherever it needs to go distribution centers like How does that you know, okay are we gonna have to lay miles of pipe through the marsh? Okay. Well, how are we gonna lay that not pipe but wire how are we gonna lay that wire in such a way that we don't tear up the marsh and and hurt the redfish The Flounder. The Sheep said the speckled trout the white trout black drum. Like how do we not hurt those fish or how do we do it in such a way that promotes their benefit not just the superstructure offshore. Then there's the whole challenge of getting it. ensure to where that power can be used, you know, or are there massive floating batteries out there that they pick up, you know, like which I think the wires probably how they're gonna do it, but how to How do we lay that wire in the right way? So that's that's one of the I guess the things for like the infrastructure where they're different from oil rigs. They don't have that pipe. They're not gonna have as much pipe but they're gonna have the wire and how do we not do what we did with some of the oil stuff where we unnecessarily dredge and created Coastal erosion problems. On top of our how do we not compound our already existing Coastal erosion problem? That's that's big thing. And I think there's the big thing too of these probably aren't gonna require the same Manpower that oil rigs have you know, I don't know what the numbers are on how many people stay and live on a floater. But I imagine it would not be as much probably non-existent. You know, I think they're they're gonna be set up to be maintenance but not have full-time live award people. So there's that difference and then that that brings up, you know, which is cool because you're not gonna have waste from people living in the ocean there. But what ways do they create? How do we manage that way? Because they're gonna have a completely different type of Then an oil rig maybe some of the same chemicals or the same substances, but different quantities different amounts. And what are going to be their management practices to not just be like, oh, hey, we're changing the oil on the bearings open a valve and dump it into the ocean which obviously I hope would already be illegal, but What what's the thing? We're not thinking about with that. What's the You know. Because they're definitely cleaner than oil rigs, but they're still a machine and there's still something that is going to come out of them at some point in time that needs to go somewhere other. than the water 
it this well, well, how are you looking I've worked with enough on these to know that there's a ton of components that I think he got here. 
You know, this is great. 
Do you? 
It's a you done a great job with this giving us a ton of information stuff to chew on now. We're kind of rounded out towards the end. Is there anything else related to Offshore winds that you want kind of added in here for us to think about that? You have another chance to talk about or you feel like you got it all out. 
I would say the one thing I would be interested in and and this is like a me curiosity question right like but hurricanes Okay, you got a giant propeller out there that I'm assuming it doesn't take very much win to spend that propeller if they're putting it in the Gulf of Mexico that you know for five months out a year. Our average wind speeds probably. 10 to 11 knots out there, right? So I personally want to know what happens when a 200 mile an hour, you know, 178 not wind. comes through there like like what is What is that because that is the one scenario in which I see a bunch of really bad things happening. Maybe not necessarily with like loss of human life, but some poor investors somewhere is gonna just put up a bunch of money and you know, he's gonna own 50 of them or whatever and all of a sudden they're gonna wake up one day and there's gonna be a propeller, you know in the more I'm gonna be going to one of my redfish holes after a hurricane. But hey, look at that 150 foot propeller Jesus that thing came like a hundred miles. That's Up. That's wow like ah, that sucks. Um, so you know what, I would like to know that and you know, one of the things I think that the oil industry did has done really poorly. is they're clean up efforts after a hurricane. This is mostly focused around the ensure and I think a lot of locals do this poorly too and industries do this, but it's like, oh we had a hurricane. Where did my bait freezer go and on your bait freezers just sitting in the marsh somewhere and you know, maybe kind of is there a way that like oh, hey, if one of these things implodes in a hurricane and it just sends props everywhere, like what is what is the plan for being like? Hey, let's not leave giant hunts of metal. Um, In the marsh or in the ocean and obviously some of them you're not gonna be able to get right there 200 foot down 300. That's fine. But if if there is a risk of some of their stuff ending up in you know shallow or say 20 foot or less. Water one that's navigational hazards. How are they going to be marked and recorded and put on? You know Maps so that way I'm not out there with a family of four having a beautiful day on the water anything. You know, there's eight foot hole in my boat and I'm calling the Coast Guard not cool. I'd be a little sad, you know, so like there's the navigational and then and that would be an environmental impact too of like Hey, how do we not put s*** all in our Marsh? You know you go after a hurricane and there's there's stuff everywhere and there's gonna be and that's fine. But how do we how do we reduce that as much as possible, you know decrease hazards to birds and fish and you know oyster reefs and things in the shallow or water and navigational hazards for individuals that commercially recreational or just enjoy weekends out on the water because I have plenty of stories of people after hurricanes and stuff like that ruining boat getting hurt like Running something that's been fine for the last 10 years and all of a sudden there's a you know, eight inch metal pipe. Where'd that come from? And I think that the oil companies a lot of times are just kind of like oh It disappeared not our problem. Well. Yes. But it is still your problem. You still own that pipe and that pipe still just ended up, you know in my lower unit and not that I want financial compensation, but like It'd be nice if that five got removed eventually like that'd be kind of cool. Because how many other lower units is it gonna take or and then what happens when someone gets hurt from from that so they're they're hurricane playing and their hurricane clean up playing would be a really interesting thing for me to lay my eyes on and just be like Oh, okay. That's that's how they're gonna do that. That's how they're gonna handle that. You know. 
You know and it's interesting we've been talking to some folks in on like the developer side and I can tell you they're thinking about that. But I don't know if they have all the answers yet either which is really interesting. They're still trying to figure it out. Which is wild. 
I mean, yeah, I mean it's it's a giant it's a windmill and all of a 
Yeah. 
sudden you go from 15 mile an hour winds to 200. 
Like I don't know how you build. I am not the guy to build that for you. It's gonna make it through a hurricane. 
right Yeah. 
It's not glad that's not 
That's a friend. 
Me too, man. All right. I'm a I'm gonna 
