Okay, well. 
Hi there. Can you guys hear me? 
Yes. 
Yes. 
How are you Respondent? 
I'm doing fine things. 
And how are you? How was your weekend? 
Doing good. I moved into a new place. So it's been busy. 
nice It's I went well. 
Yes. Yes, it's going really well. I'm still working three things. 
Perfect. 
But yeah, thank you for asking. 
Still a lot of boxes to unpack. 
Awesome. 
Yeah, it's it's like unpacked to like functional, you know, so it's functional got my office going, but I'm waiting on a couch. So there's some things to work out. 
All right. Well, let's go ahead and get started. I have a couple of housekeeping notes, but first let me introduce myself Respondent. My name is will claybor. I'm a Noah affiliate. I work between the Atlantic oceanographic and meteorological lab in the Southeast fishery Science Center in Miami Florida. And I coordinate the offshore wind project for the Gulf of Mexico integrated ecosystem assessment. And that's why we're here today. So we're conducting stakeholder Outreach with folks who have some sort of Interest or stake related to Offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico. so for today This should feel more like a casual conversation than anything else to you. You'll be chatting mostly with Brittany. I'll be over here on my other screen doing sort of the mental modeling process. But Brittany's gonna have a series of questions for you. If at any time, you need to stop the interview or if you need to follow up with a question have something repeated have her give an example. She's completely prepared to do that. But we definitely want to hear about things that fall within your subject matter expertise things that you know for sure but we're also just as interested in things that you may have heard or speculation related to changes in the ecosystem because that's the the kind of things that we'd like to produce data to either support or dispel. And then finally, we have the ability to record these interviews for note keeping purposes that does not include any sort of video or voice recording it would just be the use of transcription software. However, this is completely voluntary and optional. So is this something that you would consent to or would you prefer not to be recorded? What was that? Sorry I miss it. 
But no problem. 
Okay, cool. 
Let's do it. 
Awesome. So in that case just for Noah purpose of legal purposes. I just have to say once we start 
So with that we'll probably start the transcription and we'll get into your first question. So when you think about marine conservation in the Gulf of Mexico, what do you think that might be changed by offshore wind? It's very broad question. 
very so after working in the island gas for very long time my major concern. well besides oil spills that of course we Don't really have that much of in Wind. probably my major concern will be the creation of hard bottom environments we as we saw with oil and gas platforms. There's been a migration of species. A lot of structures and Edmonds describe it was Edmonds. No, it wasn't. I remember the name the other anyway. The describe it the platforms are Stepping Stones. And we see it with the propagation of two bastria. And we see it now with a couple of other invasive species going up in the Gulf of Mexico due to this hard environments that are not very common in the area. Um, that's basically my mayor concerned increase of these habitats that are not natural to environment and the consequences they can have they can have positive consequences, but also negative consequences. That's that's the major concern. I really have I mean again after being in an oil and gas for so many years. I kind of understand the process some of the impacts and that are very common to both of them to both Industries, basically. You know Drilling and establishing structures in the ocean. And all these so yeah, that's probably the my biggest concern. 
Do you want to touch on any of the more minor concerns or would like to focus on just that that big concern? 
well 
Even if you just want to throw them out. 
Yeah, no, of course Fisheries is always a concern and everybody sees like Fisheries can be impacted. I don't see us Fisheries can be impacted. I see it's as a lot of fish can get new habitat. the problem with this new hobby that has happened with platforms as well is that they aggregate species so when you don't have effective Resource Management, you can get into our fishing pretty pretty quick because they are aggregators of these species. One of the concerns I have. It's not with the platforms established. The establishment of the problems itself is how these is going to go to land. So we have 4,000 plus miles of I don't know how many miles of pipelines in the Mexico? but when I was in Colombia we had discovery of oil off short the northernmost part of the country and there were when they were assessing how to get that oil from the platform to the continent. What we found is that in the middle. We have a stretch of I don't know 90 miles of sea grasses. so how to get on top of those grasses, so when we do stories about where to locate the platforms or in this case, the we the the weon structures. We think a lot of the of the wind we lock with we think about the That depth and so the substraton around the place where we're gonna install this platforms of these structures, but we don't think sometimes enough how to move that in this case energy from there. To the coast and the implications and the best routes that comes in like in a second part. So after we identify all this is the prime location, this is great. Oh crap how we're gonna get there so we don't get that usually into the early planning process. 
Hmm. Awesome. Yeah. Thank you for bringing up that connection because yes, it seems to favor some parts more than others of the process. 
and of course being part of the flower gardens now and It expansion of the flow of the of the sanctuary. It might include getting you know these cables. maybe close to some of these environments and and also probably the little knowledge that we have our ordinance affiliate environments. The only worldwide specially in the Gulf of Mexico. So yeah. Those are the miners consumers I guess. 
awesome Thank you. So with that I'll move on to the second one, but I feel like just a reiterate the topics you brought up your major concern in regards from your conservation is that creation of hard bottom and how that main bait invite invasive or non-native species as they can use those for stepping stones. And then some other topics are the how their fish aggregators and that could lead to overfishing if there's not it's not regulated correctly. And then of course the connection to land maybe not being the primary focus when it comes to location and so making sure that that's part of kind of the earlier process. 
Perfect. 
awesome So with those thoughts in mind, let's move on to question two. So this is where we want to get into kind of the nitty-gritty. So how specifically do you think offshore wind energy both operation and construction would affect those things that you mentioned so kind of the stages of offshore wind creation. 
so, of course there are stages in the so you mean about the the stages of the construction of the platforms and how they affect 
Of both the construction process and then also the operation so kind of 
on the operation 
the specifics of those two phases. 
Yeah. So, of course the first part will be the all the seismic activities that will be done just to find the best way of putting all these pillars on the geotechnic. Your tectonics or whatever the geology of how to place them. So we'll have of course a lot of noise, which is not unusual for the call for Mexico. Given all the stories that already out there, so probably that that's going to be minimized. I mean I'm not very familiar, but my my guess is that. getting one of these piles up won't be more difficult at creating one of the any of the offshore structures, especially the probably the jackup will be easier but some of the other structure they sent me Permanent will be they're very very aggressive in the vicinity of that particular place. I see this similarly, but the impacts are very located in space and in time. but the thing is that you have a lot of these piles just wanted to miles apart again, so Then you have all these structure or and these bottoms. So the noise created by that that is also temporal for whatever the construction faces and so on. I mean with 4,000 plus Platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. Now, this is nothing that hasn't happened before today because ecosystem but of course will be in addition to that now my understanding of there of the regular regular operation of these structures, they are fairly maintenance-free in the terms that most of the of the maintenance and work that has been done. It's above surface. So it will my guess is it won't be that intrusive down there? Oh, that's another thing. Of course. This platforms are located in the Gulf of Mexico some of them in the way of birds. So of course that is a concern because they it's a it's I mean it might interfere with some of the migratory patterns or Birds. But again, we have 4,000 platforms with a lot of light in the Gulf of Mexico. So anyway, but so that one will be the during the operation probably the concern with birds and all the new technologies that are there out there to avoid the interference with birds. I am aware of a couple of things that are doing in I think in the Netherlands to kind of change the The speed of the of the turbine when they detect Birds. I don't know very complicated stuff. So I I see it very in terms of the operation and maintenance very not very powerful not very very many impacts. Just my concern. Of course with birds. That is there. There's always there's always been a concern and I still don't understand that that issue very well, but there's a concern with fisheries and the noise produced by the blades in Fisheries. I I haven't read enough about that to have my a good opinion, but I also know that is being a concern but I'm again I'm guessing that is very localized. 
Now, that's great. I appreciate you putting that up. That's something we can always look into and see if other people bring up so. okay, so in general you think that you know operation and and Construction while it will be some kind of disturbance. It will be generally localize and there's so many there are a lot of structures in the Gulf of Mexico already. So it's an hour we're gonna affect 
Yeah. 
Perfect. Thank you. Um, so we're gonna head move on to question three. So what else do you know or think might change about the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem as a result of offshore wind development again, this could be related to your expertise or something completely hearsay or you know something you just heard around. 
So another just thinking out loud here. A lot of times. We concentrate a lot of on the negative impacts, but not too much about the positive impact. I mean changing this oil and gas platforms the risk of another big oil spill or just the regular operation of a platform includes for example, produce Waters. All these produce water is good enough. Of board of the of the platforms. We don't know enough about the consequences of this. This isn't a story that I have always been interested on doing and I know there are some stories in Norway where they see impacts of this produce water by accumulation by the oysters just miles away from from the platform. These are things that are if we replace oil and gas with wind. as part of that that will build that will decrease so my guess is some of the pollution that is being experienced in the GoPhone. Mexico will be reduced a lot of the risks. by oil and gas not only risk. I mean today we have impacts. We still have a lot of leakage from all platforms. We have a lot of leakage from sync Platforms in the Gulf of Mexico. And this is gonna prevent that from continuing. So I I when you are asking the question, I was thinking more on the positive impacts that we don't. Think too much about but I think is important also important to highlight. 
I agree with you and we appreciate it because that's something we got not struggle with but finding a tangible way to express that is something that we want to make sure we represent so 
and I think the key is risks because I mean the oil and gas is all about risk management and and after they were Horizon we see that what we consider being at a very Noel risk almost no risk is there and with oil and gas going deeper and deeper and deeper the the risk for any something like this happening again increases 
absolutely. Yes, thank you so much for bringing up the positives. All right with that will move on to question four. Um, and so you kind of touch on this and maybe you can expand from your perspective what management actions would be able to affect the relationships today. So maybe with Fisheries in regard to Stepping. So it's a racist species. What management actions do you think could help minimize the risk? 
I don't think there's much we can do about stepping stones if we are going to produce to put this Platforms in the water. Fisheries management of course is the for me? It's a big one. because as I said a lot of these pieces aggregate under this platforms here in the states like there's a lot of Fisher in this plan in this platforms going on. But are mainly recreational fishing. So the power of structure is not that big but if something like this happens to to happen, there will be a big aggregate aggregation of fish. So it will be very important to to have a good management of that. I mean for me the most important is the the environmental planning process. to find the best places to locate this structures that do not interfere or are pretty away from other important structures like the the domes and the integral for Mexico or the of the reefs. even miss affiliate important mesopotic communities, so That is something that it's been increasing the interest for understanding this this environments in the government of Mexico, but I think there's still a lot of work to do. So yeah, there are I mean for the management point of view, I can only see a good planning. to include all these in the environmental statements and and afterwards adequate fisheries and monitoring of all different things going on all of different activities. Not much. I can think about that. 
No, that's really great. Um, yeah, I feel like you touched really on all of the topics that you brought up. So it seems like planning, you know and making the best decisions preemptively seems most important and after that, you know them actually operating and being there if we plan appropriately should be decently. Okay, and we and we regulate Fisheries as needed. So with that those are those are the four questions. So this is the time. I like to just say is there anything you want to throw out about option win that you've heard that you just want spoken into existence or on the record for anything? They may have thought about you want us to look into or think about. 
Not not. 
You know. 
point. I was the funny enough. I was talking to a friend. It was three or four years ago. He was he's from boots hole. We're talking about wind in the Gulf of Mexico and he was like nah, it's not gonna happen. and sure and the reason that a lot of 
It's great. 
that didn't get traction this year is because of political environment, but I'm pretty sure it will get some more traction in the future. Probably. Oh probably a concern will be. But that is more from the industry point of view is the potential. of course the entire golf is prone to very big hurricanes and how they industry is looking into preventing to that damage the structures and does gain into the water and damaging the the ecosystem and the Mentos. 
great point 
There's a lot of research that I'm aware of to being done in floating devices that can actually go down when When the Hurricane's approach but 
mmm 
that's for deep Waters, but I don't know much about that. But yeah, that's that's an important one measure to that. They have the the correct standards to withstand any of these events. 
another different type of risk management Yeah. 
in with increase of hurricanes and And the strength of hurricanes that's important, too to do. 
Yes, me and hurricanes had a year. So I get it. That's why I was moving. All right. Well, that's great. Thank you so much for that information. I'm gonna give will a chance to make sure he has everything he needs or if he wants any clarifying questions for his side and then he'll kind of give you a closeout of you know, how to stay in the process. And if you have any more information this has been really enlightening. So we really appreciate it. And yeah, I really appreciate some point you brought up about looking at both sides and that's what we're trying to capture with all of these interviews trying to see as many point of views and positive and negatives all together. So we really appreciate your input. Thank you so much. 
Yeah, just fine for me. The positives are much better than the negatives compared to the potential. Hopefully replacement of oil and gas. 
That's awesome. We've been getting a lot of comparing soil gas industry, which is great because we've learned a lot from there. And also how they could be potentially better with less risk as we talked about. So, yeah, it's it's been invaluable to hear people that have experience with the oil gas industry in the Gulf of Mexico. 

