
work on harmful algal blooms. And the Gulf of Mexico, so I have some expertise on ficotoxins and things like that. But most of my professional work has been involved with imperiled species. Specifically Coastal and Marine Birds sea birds Shorebirds wading Birds Etc. 
nice Alright, so this is the point at which will clicks play on the recording and we'll dive into 
Okay. 
ecosystem services and wind things first question. 
now 
What do you think about wind and the Gulf of Mexico? What are some of the benefits of having that as part of the Gulf of Mexico that might be changed by offshore wind so ecosystem services that are changed and start with your area of expertise and then we'll broaden 
Sure. Um, do you mind asking the question one more time? Let me just make sure because you know what you ask a question like that in a million things come to my head and I need to kind of parse it out. So 
I'll try to word it a little differently too. So thinking about your area of expertise both the phytoplankton and the Imperial species. What are some of the main ecosystem services that are provided in the Gulf of Mexico that might be affected by offshore wind. As it unrolls. 
sure, so I think I do think of the food web and kind of the the tentacles of that. So the first thing I think of are forage fish and access to forage fish in areas where there is offshore wind not just for humans, but for aerial Predators birds as well less concern about predatory fish and mammals and things like that, but that's one of the things where I think about. Okay that could change behaviors human behaviors. Not necessarily. for The Human Side bad or good it's just one of the things I think about the other thing I think about when I think about offshore wind is It is. And you want me to talk specific to the Gulf of Mexico, right? We're kind of thinking about Gotham Mexico specifically. 
you yeah, or if it's a natural 
Yeah, no, I'm thinking more specifically about the Gulf of Mexico and kind of that Foundation of 
that applies in many places. 
yeah, no, I'm thinking more specifically about the Gulf of Mexico and kind of that Foundation of of hydrogen Dynamics and nutrient cycling and just all these questions about how does how do these structures which are going to influence turbidity and wind Dynamics? How is that going to influence like upwelling and nutrient cycling and then phytoplankton and all the little critters that you know, everything that feeds from there. So that is that is one of the first things because that's a foundation of a lot of ecosystem Services. I also have to say We have a lot of oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico and Petro pollution and things like that. So I also think of all of the wonderful things that we could have from wind versus. Some of the the oiling and Rigs and some of the other things that we have in the Gulf of Mexico. 
That makes sense. That was a lot. Well, did you get it all? 
Sorry. 
I think I think I got it all that was 
Oh, you're fine. Okay. 
great. Yeah. 
So the next question is in thinking about basically all of those things you just listed and I jotted them down. So hopefully we can Circle back if I miss one. 
Sure. 
Thing about how those things might change as a result of offshore wind development. And maybe you can start with that last one the offshore or the oil and gas it sounded like you thought that might go down as a result. 
Yeah. I would like to think so I would like to thank by. Seeing seeing the Gulf of Mexico shift from energy from oil and gas to Offshore wind. We would see fewer. drilling rigs and more wind structures I don't know how naive that is. But I like to think that that is what we will see. In terms of how things will change. Um It's funny. I have to be honestly, I think a lot of it is a key is a curiosity factor. I don't think I know for some of these things and I am curious to see the Gulf of Mexico is a completely different. Ocean environment then where we have when today? And you know with our Shelf. and the loop current 10 turbines versus 100 turbines versus a thousand turbines. There's just all these question marks. And I think I am curious to see as the first turbines go in what we learn about how they interact with some of the features of the gulf that we experience here. So I'm thinking about low oxygen areas During you know seasonal stratification and things like that as well as algal blooms. So these are not answers and I apologize. It's good answers, but these are the things I was like, wow, we we are talking a lot about what happens and then of course being a bird person I am. concerned about interactions between birds and turbines or if we're moving closer to the coast. bats and invertebrates like dragonflies butterflies, all that kind of stuff that that may interact 
people 
with them. But I feel like there's a lot of technology that will help us and we can extrapolate from other sites more easily than we can understand what's going to happen below the water surface of water, which is more unique. 
yeah, that makes sense. So you had mentioned marine mammals and maybe even humans not below the water but on it I guess. 
Yeah. 
Thinking about how those might change. Where's your head in that space? 
um My hope is that for recreational fishing? It will be positive. These structures will either be you know, kind of fish attractants or you know, a lot of people like to fish oil rigs. And so I'm hoping for recreational fishing. There's generally a positive attitude assuming there's still access for fishing for commercial Fisheries. Um, that's another one where I have kind of two mindsets because I think it may be problematic for commercial fishermen like trawling equipment or men hated, you know, netting and things like that. But at the same time these could be protected areas like these might be Sanctuary type areas from some of the commercial fishing where there are concerns about. the intensity so I have some optimism. for both 
nice So speaking of fish you had started this whole conversation with forage fish, can you talk a bit about them and how you think they might be affected 
um I think this is again going to depend on kind of nutrient cycling and food web Dynamics if if let's say like men hate in our thread herring. Are not able to be commercially fish fish in big numbers around these turbines, and I think that'll be a win for forage fish. I also think I mean, I don't know in terms of like oxygenation and some of the hydrodynamics around these turbines if that will be beneficial. Um for these species, but my hope is that turbines might be a win for forage fish. 
nice What else rain map? 
Anywhere, we are of course not like depending on where in the Gulf are these things gonna be? 
Right, of course Devil's always in the details. 
Yes. 
On that note are there landmarks that might change? How these Dynamics play out that you can think of? 
Then marks that might change. I would definitely never want to see turbines go in areas where we have live bottom, you know, like your flower garden Banks deep water corals and areas around trenches that are critical habitat for like the rice as well and things like that. So I guess I I have a bit of a trust and assumption that we avoid these sensitive areas and that we do the work to identify bottoms before we select them for wind energy areas. Other than that in terms of like the viewshed of the Gulf of Mexico. I think wind turbines are really cool. I've been a backup to Boston and you know Gloucester in places like that and other places where I seen them and I just think they're really cool. 
Yeah, so you've added view shed to 
Yeah. 
the list in terms of ecosystem services. Do you think you seem optimistic do you think that'll be the same throughout the gulf or their communities that that Dynamic might be different? 
well, most of our communities in Texas and Louisiana and those areas they're used to looking at oil rigs. And so obviously we've got well, it's one golf. We have two different stakeholder groups, Florida. It's if you couldn't convince, Florida building oil rigs. You you know, that's a challenge but the folks who are already used to oil rigs and a lot of folks who do fish oil rigs. Their initial reaction has been well as those oil rigs have gone by the wayside. We've lost some of our like favorite fishing spots for 
right 
Spotify and things like that. So I think there would be again assuming the areas are open to recreational fishing. I think there would be something between benign and enthusiastic for these structures in the water. I do think the question mark is on the commercial side. Again, depending on where they are. So if they're in within sight line of the coast, then they're probably within the commercial Fisheries area for menhaden and shrimp. Shrimp is not doing well. So I'm not sure how many how robust that stakeholder group is anymore, but I know it would interfere. And I think a lot of it just has to do with the messaging. The idea that wind turbine what is causing a lot of these issues and the fact that wind turbines are not just an industry of themselves, but they are intended to be remedy. to climate change influences 
Right, that makes sense. So I want to go back to something you said about Bryce's whales and the 
right 
habitat that they need. I've heard that they're pretty different than other whales so I guess two-part question one. Are there other marine mammals that will react a little bit differently than them and then two, can you focus a little more on whale interactions or marine mammal sea turtles 
So yeah, well, I mean the areas of the golf that are really important some of the charismatic megafauna that I think of. Oh, it's he it's a fish but it's the whale sharks. And then there's the rice as well, but there's also the smaller whales like the pygmy and dwarf sperm whales and these deep diving whales that are still remain largely a mystery to us in many ways. And so if we don't have a lot of good Baseline understanding of their habitats and life histories that could be challenging in terms of monitoring impacts or outcomes like How much do we know about the population size? How much do we know about their their key areas? And then the other aspect of this is the real the real challenges. We also have a moving Target right now because we are experiencing. Rapid changes in terms of marine heat waves and where species are their range and so teasing out. changes that are the result of climate change versus changes that are the outputs of wind energy. We're already seeing this play out in the Atlantic on Wales. 
hmm 
And when so trying to make sure that we have enough data that we can. As scientists respond to concerns authentically and honestly, I think is is something that we need to be thinking about. 
that makes a lot of sense. So my next question is thinking more broadly that was focused on your area of expertise, but I think we touched on a lot. Is there anything else that you think might change across the Gulf of Mexico as a result of offshore wind? To monitor over time. So what would you like to see monitored? I guess is another way of wording that question. Anything we haven't hit on yet. 
You have a phrase this one but something that's happening in the Gulf right now. So a lot of the work I did was looking at health of species. So when you work with Imperial species, you're always thinking about like what are the threats? What are the things that are causing them to shrink and a lot of emerging diseases and in the Gulf, we're 
hmm 
seeing that You know, I've had to go into the water when nobody else is allowed to because of vibrio levels being so high following hurricanes and things like that. So I think the other aspect of this is um, how are we monitoring the system under the human health? Aspects so there's like algal toxins which are in our food chain and Wildlife food chain. There's the microbial community and I guess there's like food safety and things like that from pollutants and if we are seeing like are we gonna be able to measure? Relationships between these industries like less oil more wind or and climate change. Like there's this holistic health aspect of it and I may be getting paranoid because I do live in Sarasota Florida, but I will just see now like The next red tide is going to get blamed on which energy or some novel. disease, I mean That's gonna get blamed on when the energy and so again, it goes back to not having the Baseline, you know, like we had a more an unusual mortality of turns a couple years ago. In Florida, and it's a novel bacteria. Um And like you just know that people are gonna say, oh well, we never had this until those winter bikes. so that is the part that I I have some a lot of concern about is like how much are we doing now so that we have the same amount of data. It's it's like when we're doing population monitoring the risk when we do population monitoring is our techniques keep getting better. So people think we're growing the population. We're in one. In fact, we're actually just getting better at finding things. Um, so yeah. 
Yeah. 
So help something around the whole 
That's important. 
Health aspect the one Health aspect of the gulf and the Baseline the before and the after and the ability 
me 
to actually, you know statistics with some statistical robustness be able to compare and separate correlation from causation. 
Yeah, simple task, right? 
Yeah, simple super easy. 
Yeah, I'm also hearing little bits of like. What comes out in the news or what gets blamed on wind that we maybe didn't see coming. Am I interpreting that correctly? 
Oh, yeah. 
Yeah, I'm not quite sure how to word 
Yes. 
that out. That's Will's job. He's taking notes. 
Okay, let's try. 
That's another one. 
Anticipating and knowing our unknowns on knowns. What are we gonna call that? I know? No. No. 
Yep, I mean that's real. For sure. So my last formal question, I guess and then we can open it up to Just Thoughts in general is thinking about management actions from your perspectives what might be able to affect those relationships that we just spent a while discussing and this doesn't have to be Within the realm of absolute feasibility you think big and Broad and Ideal World? 
um Do me a favor Amy. Ask the question again. I want to make sure the answer I have in my head is the right fit for what you're asking. 
Yeah, so from your perspective what management actions would be able to affect the relationships that we just discussed and I know that's a lot of relationships. 
Yeah management actions. I mean, it's funding and there is plenty of funding right now. I think there's communicate. One of the things that feels like right now is there's a lot of funding and a lot of work and not a lot of coordination and communication between groups about who's doing what like even this no effort. I don't know how that intersects with like some of the restore and Deepwater Horizon work or Noah's Like encos's work on suitability models and I'm just like how do these things all tie together? So pulling it all together and building products that are synergistic and accessible. So because isn't that the issue that we keep finding ourselves in is it's two we're too complicated. Like when people are approached to win. They have very simple. They're like wind kills whales and then they stop talking and we're over here like no. No, so making sure that there's easy access to simple information. And that it's consistent. Data sets somehow are accessible in in relatively. easy places to find and then I think a lot of it is tying. when to energy to these different Industries working with the fishermen the recreational fishermen taking lessons learn from other areas where maybe things haven't gone perfectly perfectly and then I think one of the real opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico is the workforce opportunity, you know, I read a report not long ago where they were interviewing oil and gas Workforce and the gulf was the one place where workers were enthusiastic about wind. Because they're building ships and they're you know, they see like this reverse of their economic slide for these trades. And so if you can get those Industries on board, I think that is pretty key. 
Yeah, and you had talked about? my joke earlier, the devil's in the details in response to yours what 
Yeah. 
know where they put them matters. 
You have more thoughts on that or like how the planning process plays out how that might affect. the relationships we talked about 
I mean, I definitely think starting in places where people aren't immediately opposed to seeing structures in the water as a nice start just to not tick people off right at the beginning and then avoiding sensitive habitats and migratory quarters. Um, in terms of like bent the habitats and things like that, but I also am Sherry is still how wind farms are going to interact with like the loop current and the Eddies and the Shelf system The Dead Zone around the Mississippi Delta. I just like I don't know good or bad. 
Yeah, well, no one does as we talked about right so clients needed. 
Yeah. 
Yeah. Well, those are all of my questions. Do you have anything else rattling around that you'd like to share with us? 
You know things so you guys ask good questions. No, are you having are you getting? the participation from a nice broad group of stakeholders for your effort good 
We are and actually this is kind of exciting because you're a very first stakeholder interview. We've done some practice ones internally, but your your first external guinea pig, which is 
Oh good. 
But you you provide a lot of information. It's awesome. But and we're really proud of the stakeholder group. We've built out so far. We've got good representation from like e NGO side of things. We have developers in their academics other Federal agency Bowman Bessie are both participating, which is really nice. as well as nrel I think that the enthusiasm has kind of surprised me and spent a little bit easier than I thought and we are we're not a massive team. We're not like super well-funded. And so I what's nice is I don't go out there and beg people like you to do these interviews people seem to want to switch is great. 
Oh. 
But hopefully what that means is that we get a lot of diverse perspectives and the end product. Ends up being kind of like you said. Not just representative of all these different people but but everyone will know about it should be accessible and sort of representative at the same time, which is what we're hoping for. 
Sounds good. 
Yeah. Unless you have anything off the top of your head. Like Amy says it's kind of well at I do have this isn't do or die. I will send you a Google form with. a box if you have anything else that comes up at specifically think about or if there's something that you feel like if you didn't represent in your answers that you want represented that will be the Forum to kind of communicate that but yeah, unless unless you feel like there's something else important that you didn't get a chance to talk about. That's that's kind of what we had. 
Nope, I'm sounds good. 
Yeah, thank you. 
awesome 
Thank you. 
Yeah, thanks for you. 
Yeah. 
What? I'll send I'll keep sending project updates. I'm pretty sure you're on our advisory team list. So keep an eye out for that if there's anybody else in your network both either at TNC or elsewhere that you think might be a good fit for something like this. Feel free to share the opportunity or reach out to me and I can send you some some language to pass along to other folks, but really really can't upsize enough how appreciative we are of your time and that you really miss participate in something like this and hopefully we'll be in contact soon with some exciting updates. 
All right. Sounds great. Thank you. 
Thank you. 
Good luck with you. 
Thanks. Bye. 
