I'm not sure if I don't know if I really think they'll change a lot. I think it's just you know. Adding to what we already have out there. You know, I think. You know, some of the benefits would be, you know job and whatnot. I know there's a lot of opportunities. As we kind of transition from oil and gas to more Renewables, you know folks that are already out there in the oil and gas industry. You know, I think there could be some great transition for jobs and other opportunities for them. Or what else? I don't know. I'm kind of kind of stumbling now. I think it's a good opportunity for. You know just like a new opportunity in general for everybody. Right? I know there's lots of you know, girl I grew up in dulac Louisiana. So it's kind of far down there. But you know, everybody were shrimpers, right you either shrimp crab or you worked in industry. And so I think you know kind of like structure oil and gas structures in the golf. It may lend some opportunities for you know, some economic benefits for those folks as well, you know people charter fishing, you know around Structures, you know, that could be a good opportunity. I don't know wanted to concerns just vessel traffic out there in my mind, you know because there's lots of operations going on with oil and gas. I mean, I guess there's less. Or a Slowdown of operant oil you guys operations on the shelf and it seems like you know Renewables may be more contained to the Shelf at this point, but just you know increase vessel traffic and stuff like that. See I could see some conflict with you know, fishermen and stuff like that. I don't know. I think overall, you know in my mind it could be a benefit. You know overall. You know. 
The first question is hard for your your specific style because it makes sense when you're like, oh whales do this in the Gulf of Mexico and how do you think I'll change? But so I think that's a hard question for yours with it being so broad, but you've run up some great things and we'll keep bringing those up as we go through the questions and if we want a chance to go back to that at the end we can but yeah, I totally get that. So questions who is going to be a little bit more specific and I think might be easier to kind of pick apart what you're thinking about. Um, so for question two, we're looking for more specifically when you think about offshore wind both in the construction of offshore wind and the day-to-day operation of offshore wind. What do you think will impact the things that you think about in your expertise? So what do you think will impact you know a day to day, Louisiana? Is that correct? But the people from Louisiana? 
Yeah. 
Or also, what do you think about with you know, site-specific permitting and stuff when it comes to both construction and operation? 
Okay. Yeah, I mean I guess the first thing is just because of my like they work for bone just seafloor impacts, right? What what additional impacts they're gonna be they're gonna have out there, but especially, you know, just setting up an entire. Farm, right how many we're gonna have how much disturbance is gonna be, you know happening energy transmission, you know, I'm thinking kind of like will it be similar to pipeline installation stuff like that? We're gonna be the requirements for those that are gonna need to be buried or you know, if so how many feet down, you know, do you have to be buried if not buried can you just be covered? Um, you know Mats or whatnot like we've seen, you know for Pipelines. yeah, that's that's something else right there, I think about and then with those disturbances what opportunities could happen, you know kind of like, you know, I mentioned earlier, you know, once you get them installed, you know, will they will there be opportunities for like fisheries and stuff like that? But also what impacts to like shrimping is gonna happen because of them. I mean, I feel like some of the areas may you know be prime shrimping areas. You know, I'm thinking back to the last public meeting we had you know, it seemed like shrimping was a bigger concern now. I haven't gone back and looked at maps and you know try to confirm or you know, the spelling of those issues. But you know, I feel like shrimping is kind of a bigger concern. Let's see. I don't know. 
Those were great. Things they brought up so you 
Okay. 
mentioned vessel traffic and question one. 
Yeah. 
So how do you feel vessel traffic Compares between like operation and or Construction? 
I feel like affiliate the construction would be a lot more vessel activity, you know as they as, you know, they're carrying equipment back and forth start. I'm assuming they would like cables like they would like pipelines or I just kind of reel it out or whatnot or use a vessel to trench and in real it seems like you know operations. Probably not as much. I mean, I'm not real sure, you know, it seems like they're they're not they wouldn't have to have a crew vessel, you know shuttle in people, you know once or twice a week to and from but how long like whenever they have this in the best love for maintenance or whatnot. How long is The Vessel out there for and stuff like that? Those could be concerns, you know. I mean again jobs would probably be a good one, you know, because you're creating a long-term some long-term positions right? Not only in the fabrication and installation, but also on the maintenance so I mean that's seems like a good positive. to me 
Perfect. I was just gonna say when do we see the jobs happening and you you 
Yeah. 
already had it? 
Awesome. Those are very specific. That was great. Um All right question three. So this is more of the give me anything you got type of question. So what else do you think might change about the golf Mexico ecosystem as a you know, very Broad View with the result of offshore wind development. This can be with your subject matter expertise or maybe things you've just heard or things you think about 
Yeah, I mean, I don't know like in my mind. I don't know if a whole lot would really change right I mean I mean we've got structures out there now thousands of them. I mean we're taking hundreds out a year. I mean, I don't know what really changed. I mean we've yeah, I mean I think economically things that someone stay the same. I don't know. 
can I can I offer a rephrasing or restructuring this question? 
now 
What what do you see as the major differences in terms of impacts or sort of like ecosystem systems ecology between oil and natural gas platforms and current intrusions in the ecosystem and then offshore wind like what are what are the main similarities and differences in your mind from where you sit? 
Um, I guess similarities would be they're still structured out there. They're still you know, they they're an installation. They're still have there's still lots of bottom disturbing activities. They're still you know, laying things on the seafloor. I guess one. One difference I guess, you know like oil and gas platforms. You've got a lot of you know, Carbon emissions coming from those you wouldn't have that from platforms for say right. I mean take out the vessel traffic and all that stuff, which is You know kind of figured out negligible most of the time. Yeah, I don't know. Oh, I think overall I mean like yeah, like I don't think a lot will change overall whether it be positive negative, you know, I think a lot of the impacts will be temporary initially, you know, just like you know and installing or removing a platform, you know, you have disturbance you bring it back supposed to bring it back to pretty you know pre-installation conditions, I would assume that would be the same during decommissioning of of you know offshore wind. turbines Yeah, I mean, I think anything would really be temporary. I do have some disturbances and everything that kind of, you know bounce back like we see. you know all the time so 
Honestly, that's just as much a result of a result our answer as as anything else. So that's totally fine. Sorry but in 
No, no, I was just gonna say that the Journal of no findings or whatever. You know, like I think having 
right 
somebody say, I don't think it's gonna change a lot. It's very important to our study. So We appreciate that. I feel like we always wanna have an answer, but that is a good answer. 
and I feel like off South Louisiana. There's not a lot of population down on the coast. Anyways, other than maybe Grand Isle which is kind of mainly vacation home. You don't really have a whole lot of 
Yeah. 
view shed issues in my mind. You know, I think on the East Coast I was a big issue and I know I think Mississippi here where I live now, it's they've got issues with the you know, what's it called? 10 miles or 12 miles? They don't want anything so far off the coast as far as platform because they don't want to see it and stuff like that. So but I don't think there's that much of an issue of coastal Louisiana plus I mean, but all of us growing up with it, I mean you It's kind of something you got like You know, when you go to Grand our up go look a platform. food showing or something like that and you just see him. It's kind of like oh cool, you know they're there. I don't think you know wind would kind of be the same thing, you know, we were kind of getting off on tangent a little bit, but I went on to mission trip with my wife school over to Arizona over Thanksgiving and kind of driving through Texas seeing the you know hundreds of flashing lights at night. You know, it's like what is that like? Oh, that's one farm. So to me, it's kind of cool to see him out there, you know, but that's just me. 
I think plenty of you of us will have the same idea of thinking it's cool. I still think I've seen one in real life, so it'll be cool when I see one eventually. I think I saw some in Norway Maybe. Yeah, no, it's a great Point. Thanks for bringing that up. Um, so this really interesting 
No. 
question for you. I think so from your perspective what management actions what affect everything you mentioned today. So I think kind of hitting on management around kind of talking or communicating with the people when it comes to jobs economy all of that stuff and then also with permitting, you know, what management questions would you want considered? 
hmm I don't know. I mean I just I think. Clear guidance, you know. I'm just thinking management right now and we complain a lot about just there's no clear Direction on anything. I think, you know having clear regulations. We we do in TLS a lot, you know notice the lessee's to kind of clarify things. So, I don't know if offshore winds gonna have a similar type thing, but maybe lots of clarifying things. Yeah. hmm Think about that for a second. I don't know I think. I think public involvement is a big deal and I think we need to have you know. No, not a lot, but adequate public involvement, right and actually meaningful stuff, you know on I know we live in more of a hybrid type virtual world, but I think you know getting down to some communities and actually putting something up for people to look at. You know, we we did a lot of that with Atlantic G&G, you know back in 24teen 2015, you know travel on the east coast and actually getting in a room and showing Maps, you know diagrams. Here's how this work. You know, here's how a size Mac Air Gun Works. Here's how high res work stuff like that just showing people, you know, actually what's going on, I think Having public involvement like that. And I think that's that would come from more management to say. Hey, here's how we're gonna operate these things. I think that would be extremely useful. and it's might not be the bigger management type things that maybe folks are looking for but Yeah my mind that's kind of it. I'm like, I'm mainly on the site specific side of things. So it's like things like that. That'll help us out when we actually get to you know, where we have a construction operation plan or something like that will help us out on the back end and that's kind of that's kind of my thinking, you know, if we can clear a lot of that stuff up get a lot of the input get, you know, clear conditions or mitigations in there for certain areas that are you know, folks are more concerned about they're not help us out at the end when we actually, you know, trying to get a operation plan or construction plan approved. 
That's yeah, that's great. We had someone yesterday pretty much said the exact same words for you the meaningful communication. Um, are there any so you mention, you know, you're kind of you're on the 
Yeah. 
specific side and you're saying Communications really important. Are there any site specific communic things that you need to work with as a site specific planner that you need communicated? There are from the community. 
You know. See, we're kind of weird and bow myself. Maybe I'm weird. Not the right word unique, I guess because we tear a lot, right? So a lot of our stuff is done at the Eis St. age and typically We the site specific folks are involved in that to kind of explain the downstream per se of how you know our our work and our site specific work apply. So Once we get to the site specific stages, there's not a lot of additional information that we need because we've already looked at a lot of the big picture stuff on the front end there are cases where we'll need additional information and stuff like that. So but as far as the communication and Outreach and stuff like that, we typically don't do much at the site specific stage. Yeah, so I think I think the majority of that would would be included, you know early on. But you that though right we would 
Yeah, that's great to know. 
have input on that the site specific folks, so 
Yeah. That's great to know that, you know. When that all happens, so it seems like things need to really happen early on. Um, okay. I think that's great that does answer all those four questions really well, so with that. Is there anything that you've just heard on offshore when that you wanted to let us know to kind of take into consideration anything you want to mention about offshore wind in these areas, Louisiana, Texas 
I mean not not really I don't think you know. 
That's just my my last minute. Like is there anything else you need 
Yeah. 
to say that you didn't feel like you were able to say? 
I mean, I'm kind of I'm kind of excited from the bone. So I'm kind of excited to see something happen and get the opportunity to work on, you know, the offshore wind program. So I think it's a unique opportunity right now. 
Awesome. Thank you so much. Will is there anything you need 
fantastic 
clarifying on or you know a different question? 
Now I I think I have everything I 
thing 
need. It's like I said the sort of the beauty of this methodology is how different and unique every single one of these comes out and we have everything for years. So this is this has been great. And so 
