Awesome, and then see I knew I was like I'm gonna be the one that brings up your name. Um, I will write down a couple key points that you mentioned so that as we go through the questions I can kind of bring them up or make sure you touch them again. Just kind of keep us organized. All right question one, um, when you think about protect the species ecology and enforcement in the Gulf of Mexico, how do you think offshore wind is going to change that? 
The Taylor truth is it won't change it that much. We already doing enforcement for a lot of things such as decommissioning using the explosives for decommissioning of structures. We're already doing mitigations for seismic air guns for collecting of G&G information. We're already doing impact hammers. The only thing I would say is gonna be different is that this the magnitude of those impact hammers are gonna be scale. unseen before within the Gulf of Mexico and so that will be where the the most impactful most likely will run because there's already a lot of vessel traffic as well. So it's going to be the sound from those impact hammers. 
So some of those things you mentioned. Are they from oil and gas or they offshore wind Associated already? 
Well, the they do hrg surveys for offshore wind but not necessarily in the Gulf yet. This is all mostly bringing over from the Atlantic Seaboard, so Knowing how we've you know, they already have two projects in construction with South Fork and Vineyard wind. In just south of Rhode Island and Massachusetts, and so we have some inclinations of what's going to happen. the differences are in the regulatory structure is how the hierarchy within Bessie and bone will be handling offshore wind within the Gulf of Mexico. It's it'll be through the regional offices instead of through headquarters. And so and I doubt the the density you should say of projects will will be nowhere near where that it's going to be in on the east coast of the United States. 
Alrighty, and you mentioned mitigation in your jobs scope. So how do you think mitigation 
Yep. 
efforts may be affected by offshore wind? 
um again other than they're already protected species observers going out on those vessels already on those impact hammer installations facilities and already on, you know barges overseeing decommissioning. So we already have protective species observers in place. It's The again it's because of the magnitude of the impacts from those impact hammers. Will there be just a larger number of them? Right? So right now in the Atlantic we're requesting within the construction operation plan in their pile driving monitoring plans that they have at least three psos on. Deck with on the vessel that's with the impact hammer holding the actual. Mono pile or whatever. They're installing. and that they have two support vessels circling the the area at about I think 1500 kilometer 1500 meters. Excuse me. And then there's a lot of passive acoustic monitoring as well. So it's gonna be very similar to what's going on in Atlantic. The only thing that might differ Is the mitigation zones? It depends on where these. Actual placements are within the the least because right now we're in the process and it has not been finalized yet. But there is a critical habitat that designation for the rice as well through a isobath of 100 to 400 meters. For critical habitat and that could potentially affect special traffic and placement of these. 
Awesome. Thank you. All right. So with that we're gonna go to question two and question two is similar, but asking for a few more specifics, so how specifically do you think offshore wind both in the operation the day-to-day operation and the in the initial construction do you think will affect things that you've already mentioned? 
Not much. 
That's a valid answer. 
Like I said, it's because I said the still the majority activities within the Gulf of Mexico are going to be dealing with conventional oil and gas activities. We might within Renewables. They're still some research going on with carbon season questration and capture until that is more secure. I believe it's making sure that when you start Pushing carbon into fractured geographic features geologic features. Excuse me. To make sure that's not being released right back out to the atmosphere through the ocean floor and we won't know more but that's gonna be upcoming as well. And then a lot of the stuff that we do we monitor. Yes. We monitor all the way too sure for some of these offshore wind facilities. even in state waters But there's an overlap of jurisdiction with the US Army Corps of Engineers. And then of course, they're going to be state representatives. Like if it's like in state waters, Louisiana would be the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources overseeing the installations. and Regulatory framework 
Can I interject an s a follow-up Brittany unless you have one? 
yeah, look at 
so thinking both physically about where they're going to be and how they'll operate in the Gulf of Mexico, but then also From like a regulatory and policy perspective. What do you see as the key differences between offshore wind and existing well and natural gas or do you see them as section essentially variants of kind of the same type of activity 
I see them just as another flavor. Of offshore activity for energy production. I mean just electricity going through cables instead of oil goes through pipeline. So there's gonna be a lot of overlap with facilities with infrastructure with Supply vessels the location to where some of these things are coming from like we're supply chain issues might be a little bit easier in the golf compared to the Atlantic for some things. Like I know that in Galveston, I believe is where they're building a lot of the offshore substation platforms our top sides. Excuse me. So that's more convenient to be Shipped as far but then you have probably things like mono piles and other the knee cells in the blades if they're not being constructed and within the United States are coming over from Europe. So it's you know, I believe that there is some especially in the New Orleans area. I believe they were trying to convert Mishu which is used to be a NASA facility. into a potential offshore wind infrastructure facility, they not for collecting when parts are but for building and collecting the pieces to be shipped out to supply those constructions. 
I think kind of along that same vein. It seems like you're saying the systems in place for protected species in the Gulf should be able to Work for offshore wind as well kind of those particles, okay. 
Yes. Yes, it's just it'll just be. right now there's not a whole lot of What called geophysical G of geographical data that are you know, the being collected? We have a few surveys going out concurrently, maybe but never in the same areas. So. The only thing I could see being a potential issue would be a strain on resources, but that just being that we have to include more third-party PSO providers into the equation. 
Yeah not kind of brought up. The last thing I was gonna mention is you kind of mentioned that the magnitude might be different. So I assume magnitude would also. Have a influence on that. 
Yeah, I mean because right now for pile driving, it's usually it's very infrequent for oil and gas. I mean, it's for driving well conductor pipe into the ground or well-drived pipe. Very few installations are being installed right now. Just just Where they're with the industry is in terms of a development, but when you start putting in, let's say a hundred. wind turbine units that's a hundred pile driving issues. all probably happening within you know a six to eight month period so yeah. 
Alrighty awesome. So with that, we'll move to question three. Um, so this is where we give you a chance to kind of be more open-ended. Uh, what else do you think might change about the Gulf of Mexico ecosystem as a result of offshore wind development either related to your expertise or just things you may have heard 
um Change I don't know about changing much, but it'd be nice to have more concentrated data. Right especially from the passive acoustic monitoring systems. That will be put in place or offshore wind. Basically creating a passive acoustic monitoring Network within the section most likely going to be the Western Gulf of Mexico Northwestern. Yes, I go from Mexico. And then also with more eyes on the water in a particular area. We'll have a dent. Yeah higher density of detections if if they are there to have more data for protective species of observations. So outside of when we have research cruises that go through things like the go maps program This is Gulf of Mexico monitoring for protected species. Where they go out and they actually just do transects and research right. So so those are more directed for population estimates. Whereas these are more opportunistic type of observations. We're kind of talking with the southeast fishery Science Center Lance Garrison and trying to see how we can incorporate those data into more. robust estimates of population size for certain species so we'll see how that goes. 
awesome All right last question. So from your perspective what management actions can affect some of the things you mentioned today? So maybe we can help with protected species while offshore wind is occurring. 
Can you repeat the question? 
What management actions can affect some of the things that you've mentioned today? So what what would you I guess like to see in regards to management actions. 
I mean, I don't foresee anything. I mean how to put this there is a different because of the way the regulations are written for offshore wind compared to the conventional side there's a lot more opportunities on the conventional side to review. Activities should I say whether that's through a plan or a permit? Offshore when a structured completely differently, it's it's you have an opportunity at the lease phase to where the lease is issued to have least stipulations and cover that. And then it goes through a site assessment phase or we might have a couple of plans come in. For hrg surveys and some maybe some. Geotech or establishing where the foundations might go in the sediment. And but it's the big. push on the construction operation plan where we have oversight and regulation where there's a large impact environmental impact statement that's conducted. for the federal action of approving the construction operation plan for bone that's where we're able to put those mitigation measures into to effect. The problem is is that there's like a one one bite at the Apple right for a lot of activities going on compared to an oil and gas where it's almost like activity specific or plans specific. So it takes a lot of foresight and getting this right because you have a construction operation plan might have a 30-year lifetime. On that act on that action and oversight compared to say A Five-Year Plan for exploration or development. 
Would you would you change that if given the chance? 
I would probably have made it close. I mean if if regulations if they were to listen to me, of course and listen to the Gulf of Mexico because we were trying to tell it was like, why would you run a reinvent the wheel for regulatory? We've been doing golf, you know, we've been doing an oil and gas in the Gulf of Mexico for so long. Why would you want to reinvent the wheel how we we approve activities and It was just that you know Renewables is supposed to be greener and different they didn't want to do it different way. They all said it was more of a What was it called? When you have a productive you basically a project design envelope right? And so it's a little bit more difficult to. To get a lot of new investment into something that hasn't been done before and so giving giving operators more flexibility and how they propose and plan their their activities kind 
know 
of gives it a bit. Makes it a little bit easier to do it on that on that one big plan. Kind of strategy. I will we'll see give that five years down the right Road and we have a lot more. You know, you said Steel in the water and Atlantic will know because it's gonna be a while before we have it in the Gulf of Mexico. 
so kind of the the novel novelty of it all they're giving a little bit 
I think I think that's part of it and 
more. 
I think they wanted to have it a little bit different and how they I mean because otherwise, like I said, it's just another flavor of activity on the office on the right because just pile driving you just well you doing a lot bigger pile driving right instead of a three foot. Piece of Steel you're doing a 30 foot monopod. 
Okay. Yeah, I think the difference is between. 
Diameter excuse me. Those are diameters. 
Yeah, no, the difference between oil gas and off your wind is a very very common theme. So that'll be interesting to see how it plays out. 
Yeah, I mean it's for us it's gonna be the same. I mean most likely. For the East Coast. There's going to be a division within Bessie. Where a lot of the Environmental Compliance is going to be through the Renewables operations group. The stuff in the Gulf of Mexico is just going to go through our regular. Gulf of Mexico region through their Office of Environmental Compliance. So our office will see everything that is oil and gas or renewable. So 
All right. 
sorry. No, hush. 
Well in case you don't know he has an awesome name Nola. And with that I think that was personally identifying information with that. I think we're done. We're done with the questions. Whoever knows you have a dog named. No, we'll be able to hunt you down and you're record. Um, but yeah, I think that's everything that we needed. 
Okay. 
I I do actually usually give everyone a chance like is there any last thing that you want to say about offshore wind in the Gulf of Mexico it kind of want to get off your chest or 
Well, like I said, I think this if I were the states. Louisiana is pushing this hard. Right actually potentially two projects that might be developed within state waters. Texas actually has a larger state water margin between internet. federal waters Yep, and they if you look at the maps of wind availability within the Gulf of Mexico, it's off that South. Texas area and I if I were them I would be I'd be putting in wind farms off of Padre Island, you know, so. But Texas is Texas and they have a believe me just like Louisiana. They have a lot of interest when it comes to oil and gas the thing is a lot of these companies that are doing this are Doing Ventures like you'll see shell venturing with. Some other company like having great or some other company to to actually expand their energy portfolios to get greener and to make sure that you're providing energy in the future. But yeah, I don't mean. It's it's not going to be as big as it is on the east coast and it probably won't be as big. As it will be on the west coast even though the West Coast won't have much at all. Because the waters too deep it's just different. I think what's going on is why was the East Coast that was really more? suitable one because the geography and the political climate and everything else that within that particular section of the United States and it mirrored the the North Sea right the more shallow water close Shelf. systems Where there's a high population? for energy demands, so we'll see. I I really like the the Gulf of Mexico as well as other parts of now like within boom is now working really closely with in costs for marine spatial planning on the on the wind energy assessments. And trying to do that conflict resolution beforehand. Is I get a feeling we're gonna you know, like everything else when they start putting these things in the water, you know, the southeast fishery Science Center is gonna start complaining about their cmap trolls. They've been doing these for decades and if you if you start interfering with the location of where they can control where they can't trial it that's gonna influence the data and Yeah, so there's a lot of conflicts even within the same organization. 
Yeah, that's a great point. Alrighty, I think that's it. Unless will has any clarifying 
awesome 
questions. 
Now that's it. 
