okay, so typically when I think of any type of offer energy Either decommissioning or installation. One of the main ecosystem Services is fisheries and looking at then not only as a Fisheries resource for the stocks and production and attraction of those species, but also as A you know, like a key site for a lot of the Fisheries. So talk to the commercial Reef Fisheries. They are all about wind saying bring it on. We want them as long as we can fish on them as well as your recreational Charter fisherman. They're like, please tell us what do you know about this? Can you bring this on for negative impacts me you're always gonna have negative impacts to communities though. You do see You know. if there's a disruption and as little as a couple days things start to go back to the way that they were you have disruptions in terms of migratory patterns and just kind of movement of all different not only animals, but People and how they're going to navigate around these areas. So when we talk about looking at Ricks to Reef or any decommissioning activities trawlers, and the gulf are going to be one of your big. Negative impacts that we look at in terms of Assessments for permitting rigs to Reef. So it'd be kind of opposite side for Installation that being said shrimp drawing industry is not doing so hot in the Gulf right now. So what will that look like in? Two to three years five years down the line. Will they I mean, it's important that they have a say that I don't know. If they'll necessarily have as large of the impact as they have historically. 
for for these are just want to make sure he tease those out so that we have them the notes of for the for the Fisheries that are about wind. Those are the Pokemon basically right both commercial hook and line. Including probably in vertical long line and then recreational Charter hook and line. And then for the commercial Fisheries that you're saying are negatively you're saying those are the troll based fishery. 
right 
That's shrimp. 
You also have I guess the trolling which kind of falls into the charter and recreational and and all that. For pelagics, they like the platforms or any type of infrastructure. They'll go behind it even a shrimp boat to because of that attraction so of course, they're kind of more the ones kind of proposed a little closer to shore. So I don't know if that's necessarily going to be as impacted but through typically Pro structure 
pro structure anti-structure Nets so 
Yeah. 
it sounds like Nets anti-structure. lines Pro structure you can get 
right 
because you can get in there. And then for those the negative impacts you're sent for the the bent that communities that are concern there is about during the construction phase. So rather than a continued. Ongoing impact it's just during the construction that damage that could be bent that communities. 
right I have heard and I don't know. that much about this so, you know take those green salt, but we've heard concerns about You know the the temperature being increased where the lines or whatever they are run into the into Shore, but I don't actually know anything about that. But that is one of the concerns that we hear people ask us about. 
So not necessarily knowing what they'll do, but just that something. 
Yeah. They might do something. 
some curious how you know, especially with your background how you see like offshore wind, you know, the you know, it sounds like a lot of these services are very similar to the you know, the what the artificial structure that oil and gas platforms have both decommissioned in me, you know maintained ones. How do you see off for how do you see off for wind being kind of potentially similar and or different from? What the oil and gas platforms? 
So I think there will be a lot of similarities. We're actually doing predictive modeling now to look at. What is the likelihood of a probability of presence of different? valuable species in the Gulf you I mean you still have there's probably not gonna be as much complexity associated with the wind turbines as some of the oil platforms. So that might have some effects on biodiversity. But I've Dove a number of them monopile Platforms in the Gulf Northern Gulf and some of the biggest Triggerfish I've ever seen in my life. We're on those. So you're still gonna have similar structures are similar. I would say probably recruitment similarities in the type of communities that you find on the oil platforms that are within that depth range and distance from Shore. There'll be a lot of similarities. So I think everybody's anticipating them to function in a very similar matter as the oil Platforms in the Gulf. 
so from your perspective that someone's like kind of just putting out more. or you know, like what you're looking at is that it's almost like putting out a lot more oil rigs are basically the same structure type of oil rigs putting out these big monopile platforms that you know, we get Recruitment and of the of these reef fish, you know associated species. 
I think it'll be interesting to see because they will be placed in a closer together kind of in a higher density all in one place. I think that will be interesting you might we might see some differences because of that maybe more movement between it's kind of like a, you know a city almost where they're fish between 
Okay. 
because we do see movement off the platforms to nearby habitats with some of the fish. So just be on a larger scale. for that 
There's a planet they're putting a whole grid together like that then. 
Yeah. 
so so it sounds like you know, it's sounds like most of the impacts that you're that you're picturing your potentially mostly positive. It's that the providing of just kind of creating more structure out there of that. In terms of Fisheries the idea is that we're putting out just basically making more structure and it's a habitat creation. 
Yeah, and and especially the Northwest Gulf of Mexico. I mean most of the fishermen are real upset about the high rated decommissioning and they actually call this their you know, the rig Reapers come in and I'm out so they were expecting if decommissioning and there was like no installation happening. There'd be a huge impact to their Fisheries. Or at least some impact. I don't know about huge but They'd be able to tell an impact. 
Is before we get kind of two part down these see any other ones beside? I guess we have habitat potential temperature. effects and these are mostly centered around centered around Fisheries there any other the Beyond Fisheries are there any other potential? You know ecosystem services that you see being impacted by offshore wind. 
Those are the big ones that at least I focus on when looking at offshore infrastructure. There's there was talk in Texas about just people in general. that are in the oil industry not being too keen on it just because you know, they're they're competing. entities So that was the other talk that I've heard and it mainly around. competition for for essentially money, you know so and 
Yeah. 
but I'm not into that as much so that was just talk that I've heard. 
yeah, so in terms of like potentially job displacement of the 
yeah job displacement or just I guess even Coastal ensure communities. That are relying on on oil being impacted in some capacity. But I don't know, you know, maybe they just switch over to wind. But who knows? 
mm-hmm that there says, you know, it's not just what happens offshore, but there's you know, these things that go on the oil and the energy all 
right 
goes somewhere it does but someone 
Yeah. 
handles that right and they get probably paid to do it. 
Probably there's a lot of money there. 
And then I guess you know, we're kind of starting focused in on you know, if the focus of fish and Fisheries and we'll come back to it. But I do want to kind of stay just for a couple minutes of any other potential speculation because we're you can speculate here especially because you do work in that area so much of any other potential impacts and that's okay if we don't have any but before we kind of come back to back to the those or if you think of anything. 
Yeah, I think those are the main ones at least in conversations that I have surrounding. Offshore energy. It's mainly focused on. on you know, the Fisheries just general ecosystem biodiversity side. I other things that people talk about are cost Associated so one of the main concerns at least from from a perspective is people, you know, he installed oil and gas platforms. We didn't really expect them to turn into reefs. There wasn't much thought on end of life. And so trying to approach offshore wind development with end of life. Or at least a plan moving forward of what's going to happen in 30 40 50 years and just having I guess the 
Yeah. 
understanding and education out there. to Regulators oil company or oil companies when companies and just general public on here's the structure. Here's how large it is. Here's what's going to be need need to be recycled on land eventually. What are we going to what are we gonna do about that? What if some other Solutions and what is that all gonna cost down the road? So I think we've heard a lot of push and kind of are pushing before thinking about okay, you're installing them, but let's let's fast forward a little bit and what all needs to be done that wasn't done in oil and gas. like monitoring long-term monitoring just to look at impacts of Fisheries over time pairing that with changes in temperature and just kind of doing that long-term data set so that we actually have an understanding from a management perspective. of what is the actual impacts instead of just like a case study over here and then a case study over here in a case study over here having them a long-term data set that's more comprehensive is always better 
Yeah, that's basically or was gonna go next is coming coming back to kind of a lot of focus what we've talked about so far of like potential impacts. How's the negative deficient Fisheries of of management? Solutions and actions that could be recommended and this has been particularly I think interesting because we can look at oil and gas as a potential. proxy for this So, you know. So yeah. You know, it sounds like having. Having decommissioning in mind which wasn't done for oil and gas of starting out and then you talk some about like like monitoring kind of thinking about monitoring from the beginning could work which wasn't done with oil and gas you've done a lot of work with this like monitoring after these have been. Yeah. I'd like to do kind of keep you know, any other ideas you have for like, how would You know, how could we go about you know doing doing this the best way now knowing what we know about oil and gas going forward for like setting up monitoring for offshore wind. 
Mmm, what a great question. Think about this all the time. So, okay, so we are installing things Brands thinking new. And there's been a number of studies of people, you know chit-chatting about no the red snapper sock. Is this on oil platforms? No, the amberjacks talk is this on platforms? With whatever space it's in you'll probably have a little bit different is an assemblages and you know key species. That would be likely found. Is setting up and actually doing monitoring starting with okay? Year One What is the stock on the on the? Platforms or the turbines in year one and having since they're all right there. It'd be easy to kind of like randomize and select every either. Three year gonna be realistic three year to five year increments and going out there and doing a hydro acoustic survey to see what is the abundance on the these different turbines and then you have a long-term data set you can do actual. Telemetry movement just start out an array throughout the that, you know, the least blocks the turbines. And every few years got there and tagged fish and then you'll have a long-term monitoring data set there doing ROV surveys. So we do a lot of ROV surveys because it's required as part of the the permitting process for decommissioning or reefing and so going in and doing ROV surveys every three to five years, you know soon. I mean more regularly be better, but if realistically, you know, three years three to five years probably Probably more in line of what it is. Edna is a big thing now. Going out there, that could be something that's a relatively simple. thing to do with you know, logistically there's so many studies that you could set up that, you know, we're kind of seeing post talk now and and oil and gas but I think in terms of maybe fisheries management, which is the big one for the gulf would be doing ROV surveys doing Telemetry surveys doing Hydro acoustic looking at Larval connectivity modeling. That's a big one and that would be something that's would be pretty interesting. And I know there's talk about it being done. For wood turbines and there's a group doing it for the oil platforms right now. So I think all of those would be be great. Also proving our mapping to our sources with GIS looking around the area and getting a better idea of okay here are rocky outcrops nearby. Here's you know the artificial reefs natural reefs because there are little spots out in that area that are just little rocky outcrops at the fisherman know because they'll go there sites, but they're not mapped anywhere other than you know, your own GPS is and I think that would be helpful too to kind of understand. differences as a comparative of a nearby natural site that's not just mud bottom but actual some type of structure and comparing it to the the turbines would give a good Baseline especially looking at into life for Regulatory Agencies who are looking at. Okay. Well, how is this habitat different than Then these other ones and what's the value of keeping? part of the turbine You know. top holders or reaped in place 
Yeah, so it sounds like having you know, you could having a structural structured plan of what you do with the end of it based on the value of it as a reef. 
right, so there are 
And that you quantitatively assess this. 
Yeah, and then that way you have a long-term data set. That's make it all. Easy and housed in one place where people can come in and it's not like you. a bunch of different data portals and Communicated effectively that way you have not only the coastal communities, but the schools could be involved all the way up from elementary to college it could be involved. There's more these are kind of up-and-coming but there's ideas where you could actually install these cameras underwater or talk to a guy at gcfi. and I have a meeting with him about installing them on a oil platform that just have like one or two out at live feeds. And that's affiliate build in community engagement all the way up to looking at regulations. And really I think setting a standard for offshore winning. The Gulf of Mexico is in monitoring is going to be you're gonna have more Willingness from the community to put to participate then you are on the east or west coast where? Just the political atmosphere is a little bit different the familiarity with offshore infrastructure. Even though California has 27 oil and gas platforms. People are not aware. of Of what that means? So I think just building awareness and having like a repository of of here's what we're doing to Monitor and that way it's an easier path to communicate with people too. It leaves less questions of unknowns. So when it comes to the end And they're talking about regulations. The community has been following along, you know throughout the whole process. 
Can you talk some more about that about how you see you know, the golf is definitely. Stakeholders in the golf in here are talking about fishermen are gonna definitely gonna be different. The fishing is different people are different. Can you talk more about how you see that the difference is that you see goal in the Gulf of Mexico compared to potentially other places. with offshore wind 
Yeah, I think so. We work a lot in the north east talking to about offshore wind that we work a lot in California with looking at the rigstery program there which they have the policy. It's not really functional at this point. But decommissioning is coming and they're decommissioned their first platform and very plus years. So exploring actual feasibility of that and then looking at offshore wind. and so I think we have more money and knowledge and just platform ecology was kind of born in the Gulf of Mexico. And so there's already a awareness there surrounding. Science and integrating science into that whole process. Then there is in the east and west coast even though there has been a lot of research done on the oil Platforms in California. Most of it's really outdated like really really outdated and so looking at doing new studies and how we're gonna integrate that is just not as people are like well, we're gonna get you know, the money people on the Gulf of Mexico are more willing to say, okay. Well that's a good use of our resources because we're gonna see you direct benefit as a community for have everything these monitoring whereas like east and west coast since those Fisheries aren't as heavily Reliant and it's just not as prevalent or known or familiar you're getting more pushback. And so I think using especially when we're talking to people is most people have no awareness of rigs to Reef or awareness of okay, you have this infrastructure. They do turn into artificial reefs. Even if energy is quote unquote, you know dirty or whatever it is and so bringing awareness to that and then also thinking about into life because that's kind of where I always go is you have all this infrastructure. It's coming whether they want it or not. So it is what it is, but At the end of life you want to pull all that up? Where is it go? That is a ton. Ton of infrastructure that has to go somewhere. that's going to be either dumped or recycled, you know disposed of and so I don't think people are aware. Of how much infrastructure and what the emissions are to bring these heavy lift vessels over to take the structure out move it back to wherever it is, especially in California. They don't even know we're gonna put it they may have to move back down to the Gulf of Mexico and I think people just have no understanding of that so This is a long-winded way of saying I just think there needs to be more education holistically around like here's what it involves environmentally to install. Here's what we can do meantime to collect data and then here's what it involves environmentally and from in your backyard perspective of decommissioning. 
I'm going to jump in here with the follow-up question because I think this idea of education and awareness public perception is something that that cross-cuts. a lot of what we talk and think about and when you talk about ecosystem scale effects, it's a potential way to maybe address a lot of those. More ambiguous effects that have to do more perception and the political will to do these types of things. So you mentioned potential end users like like developers scientists community members as people who might benefit from this sort of understanding or education. flipping that around from your perspective who's responsibility is it to maybe disperse this type of material or provide that sort of context or education? Is that something that falls in the hands of the developers is that Noah's job as a Bone's job or is it maybe like a community? The responsibility of community organizations that are maybe more directly involved with the workforce or the political players. 
So that's a good question. Ideally, it would be a combination and a coalition of all I think the problem with the information coming directly from a operator's perspective or an operator in general is you're gonna have push back from the their green washing or you know, whatever it is. the governmental agencies are good, but if reaching your general public is maybe a little bit more difficult. So that's a lot of what we do is is Outreach. all the way from elementary school up to you know, whoever it is is starting that early so I think either the best way to do it would be either a coalition of everyone coming in and having a specific team that is focused on Outreach because the engineers of the operating companies in there health and safety officers. Don't have the bandwidth to put on all these hats the scientists really good at science. But how do you communicate that to a larger public? Using even words like we got told using the word benthic. was not a word we could use because most people may not know what that means. So taking words like that and having an own entity of of people who are really good at communicating all different levels. I would say start at the elementary level because at least everybody can understand that and then if they want more in depth, then they could be directed into more specialized conversations, but having a coalition of of all those people would be Probably the most successful way to actually reach broader. Group, I would say also bring in some of the people that are anti-wind. Anti anything because they're going to bring in a voice. That helps. People pick out. Okay. Well, maybe this is the story we need to tell or or this Dad is important to them. So I don't we have that communication and just really having both negative and positive be outlined very explicitly transparency. Let people know where the data is coming from. I think that's probably the best bit in terms of. Of doing it because it can't just come from the operator quite frankly. Probably can't just come from the government. Nobody's gonna read scientific papers that's in the public. It has to come from like a group of people. 
do you see that too for you know, it's like a really liked a lot of the notes for your sand for the monitoring of you know this. having this very detailed multi. multiple sampling approach and then also and then also thinking about ahead of time thinking about the availability of data and where that how that data is going to be housed and who will have it and you know having that kind of Open Access Data. You have like to kind of go back to that and ask like kind of similar question. Because you've thought about that a lot. How do you proceed that? You know, like imagine, you know, or like who do you see being involved and have what would kind of be the structure of doing because that's a man, you know, like doing that data collection and data management, you know for long-term monitoring. You know, how do you who and how do you see that being accomplished? 
So I would think especially if we're thinking it for like a logistical. Point of view who would be doing the monitoring. I'm assuming it would probably have to be multiple agencies and universities and other nonprofit for profit groups that are are doing the work continuously. and so I one of the problems that I personally run into and I guess this might be a little like too personal for the Recording thing but like that's one of the problems that we're trying to tackle with something mapping portal that we are developing. for informing offshore development specifically Rick's Reef that we're getting into some of the wind modeling to look look at that is I work with GIS. I work with all of these data sets. Every day for my you know for years and years and years. I have a hard time going to all the different websites and pulling and figuring it out what that data means and all of that so I think It would be similar with the Coalition or maybe having. 
right 
An agent or a company or agency who has funding from all these organizations for all of that data to come in. It'd be almost like an independent review. The data comes in. All of the scientific reporting comes in that can be communicated and turned into mapping tools or housed in one place transformed into educational videos with animators or you know, when samplings about to take place and whatever time period it is going in and and you know, really be like we're about to go do the sampling. Here's what we saw just kind of Almost like I'm not a social media person but like almost like a social media perspective of getting awareness and haven't all been this one place that all of the different universities entities. Essentially translate reports or articles and then make them more digestible. We're like all of that science is held in the background somewhere, but just taking that data even out of So what we do is look at all the different studies that have been done historically back till the 70s, you know, and then taking what data is available and those papers are talking to those people to see what data is actually available that might be housed behind peer-reviewed Publications and then taking that data out citing them appropriately. However, they want to be you know cited and then either spatially 
Mm-hmm. 
relevant or putting it into a way that's accessible by everyone 
Yeah, like lots of accessible to 
because 
other researchers the whole multitude of researchers and also thinking about having. Being having Outreach integrated into that. 
Yeah, so it's like a whole all of the science the papers the reports could be housed on there but taking that and then making it more accessible to the public and when I say public I mean operators. A lot of times operators and even you know talking to Regulatory Agencies, everybody is an expert in their field. They're not an expert in other fields. And so it's like speaking different languages and so taking all of those and then kind of merging them and it could also be a good source for Noah to have like, you know, if it's all housed in one place you can have teacher resources to where it's like, you know schools could download learning objectives or criteria and play with the data play with real ocean data and that helps with Workforce. Stuff as well in terms of like pushing stem pushing opportunities and Marine Science off because it introduces things that aren't just like dolphins. Yeah, so 
know so sometimes particularly wanted to ask about because you mentioned at the top of the interview is you know, it's like you know a lot of the stakeholders in the Gulf of Mexico that You know the hook in line Fisheries commercial and recreational Charter. He said there, you know you potential positive impacts because of habitat creation Now some like a lot of offshore wind in Europe. It's has a fishing excluded like by the nature of it. It'll be excluded to some forms of fishing like you mentioned crawling. Yeah, one of your thoughts on you know, that that potential of these being exclusions and then, you know, of course that touches on this, you know that they could serve as Marine protected areas which could have spillover effects for those areas. But then also of course MPS or its own thing of having potential Benefits, but then also stakeholder conflict. What are your thoughts for for offshore wind? in this 
Yeah, that's a good point. So we see exclusion zones not even like some of the Platforms in California have exclusion zones. We say it all over the world. I think if we're talking specifically about Gulf of Mexico it would be real difficult to be like, oh, you've had all these platforms out here for X number of years and you've been able to access them. Sorry. You can't touch these, you know, that that would not go over well. I think just in general what we've seen is. that some of the stocks that are found on the on the platforms, you know, they're they're being replenished and they're typically kind of fine, you know, so I think that's where management comes in but I don't think it would go over. Well if they had an exclusion Zone it would be it would change the entire atmosphere of the Gulf of Mexico. Your biggest supporters would turn to your you know biggest. People who are just not gonna be happy you're enemies. Now looking at it in. maybe, California That could be a NPA or something like that would maybe be a better. Leave a better taste in people's mouth. So you just kind of have to look at what the environment is. I guess those are also going to be really deep. So, you know them might not have as much access to them anyways. But yeah Gulf of Mexico that would that be no fly zone not go well. It might from people I've talked to that would not be. That would be frowned upon if there was an exclusion Zone. 
people would be mad. That's just 
Yes. 
uncheck back, if you will as we're getting kind of towards the end of our time and my questions has your how's the conceptual model looking? 
I'm my map looks good. I'm as an aside. I'm always fascinated by the direction that these interviews go. I feel like you have a preconceived notion based on someone's area of expertise about what's going to be talked about. And what comes out of models is so interesting, so that's a good thing. But yeah, I'm 
We'll go in your model. 
was that 
So don't come in and mess up your model. 
No, no you. You validate certain things. You add new things. It's it's strength in numbers, right all these ideas but I mean it's like for example the you have a lot on the management side of things a lot of new ideas that we hadn't really considered and it's not just exclusive to Like those like the recent platform ecology. I think your perspective on having worked in the golf for a long time specifically on. These types of intrusions if we're going to broadly group oil and natural gas and offshore wind. provided some really beneficial context on the public perception and the understanding and education component, which is something we've been discussing internally a little bit. 
Okay, great. Are you guys talking to fisherman, too? 
We're trying they're hit they're harder to get a hold of but right now. On the first path of interviews that we've been doing. It's been low hanging fruit. So people that have approached us willing to do interviews and we're actually starting today about to start phase two of how many people down in user groups that are less represented so that Will hopefully include more fisherman. 
Do you have Scott Hickman in there? 
Yeah. 
We okay, great. I figured you did but I have another guy out of Louisiana who's air Charter fisherman there super super friendly to talk to I can introduce you if you want. 
that would be great and actually I don't want to cut this off in case there's anything else you want to say, but after this I'm going to send a follow-up email and there's going to be a Google form where you can add anything else that you think of later on or might have missed at any point. If you wanted to use that opportunity to connect me with that person, that would be really awesome. 
Okay. 
That would be good. 
Yeah, and they and me. Could probably connect you further down the line and in their Community, but they're super nice to work with you. So. some work with them sometimes so 
the snowball Yeah, and and before we do close it up before I do my housekeeping. Is there anything else broadly speaking related to Offshore winds that you think about that? You didn't get a chance to touch on? 
No, I think I think I covered it. 
awesome Well my case I'll do my formal housekeeping and just say thank you again for your time. I'm going to send that follow up email 
