whatever 
Perfect, all right good to start recording. so for you guys and if think a lot about offshore wind, but specifically I want to dive first into this kind of this. these core areas of Workforce Development and innovation What are both the benefits and the potential like negative impacts that you're seeing as part of Gulf of Mexico for when development? 
I think I think the benefit is, you know, certainly we have a pretty outside carbon footprint here in terms of our industrial work. And so we you know, I think a clear benefit is if we can utilize some of that energy from Greener sources. I think that will help us reduce our carbon footprint given that Southeast Louisiana already is in a pretty precarious position as it can as it comes to climate change and sea level rise and some of those issues compounded with stronger hurricanes that are you know, playing a big role and and damaging our Coast so, you know, we've really got a variety of issues that need to be looked at through this Innovation lands and we feel that offshore wind can be one of those those clean energy sources I think you know from the drawback side and then I'll alternate over to   for any comments. She may have you know, I think one of the big challenges that we have is making sure that our energy which is currently Nationwide pretty pretty much on the low side in terms of how expensive it is to our customers here making sure that I'm sure when can be viable from that perspective because right now one of the big questions we're getting in the big concerns that we're hearing is how do we make this truly a viable energy source, and I think some of that will come over time with improvements in technology and improvements in supply chain certainly, you know on the environmental side. we've heard a lot of discussion from the for example, we'll joined us at the Environmental Roundtable their questions about you know near shore turbines and its impacts on on bird migratory patterns. That is something definitely will be a an area of concern. We've heard from Fisheries populations of yes, they these do act as reefs to some extent but for those that are like really trawling and and you know looking to do those long fishing line Solutions, we've heard some push back there. And so I think you know there it will. will be some disruption to our Fisheries environments and so I think certainly that's another piece that that we're looking at. How do we help minimize and how do we position our resources at the University to make sure that those voices are heard and if there are ways to address those we can be be a part of that solution. Let's see anything else? I think those are the major points. I'll turn it over to   and I'll think about some other stuff that that I may have. 
So the question was from the workforce and Innovation perspective. 
yeah. yeah in generally what we're starting 
Yeah, I think there is a possibility for economic growth and allowing a 
off as 
significant amount of jobs and internships and training in the South not only for our region but else at the national level and possibly internationally. We know that Workforce from Louisiana has contributed to development of wind farms in other states and possibly this knowledge could be transferable to you know other Industries as well benefit on the same side. I think brain drain phenomena could also happening right? 
the basically benefits and impacts, but I want to yeah, I really want people with 
knowledgeable and skills that are 
Workforce Development. But then yeah, please as like ideas come as potential positives and 
high then will be high demand to 
negatives. Just keep rolling with them. 
other companies National wise world wild. So I think that could be something that leading forward and also seeing how the south is. Is a provider of the energy, you know, clean energy for other states around us who might not be on as Progressive as we are implementing offshore wind. 
It yeah, and it seems that Louisiana such a leader from the areas that we've talked to. I'm really interested from you guys. 
It's not something we hear often. So that's good. 
You know because a lot of especially I think from the world that we're in, you know, we talked to I think a lot of kind of environmental stand and standpoints. So we do appreciate you know, any thoughts on that but is the angle that you guys take towards like Innovation and looking at the economics and the you know the prospects there are just you know want to make sure that that that's something I'm super interested in that I don't that I feel like you guys are able to like uniquely comment on so any thought 
Here. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think it oh, yeah. 
to hear 
I know. I know we kind of brushed over that that piece of it because I think it's a really important point right? I mean, you know when you're looking at The unique environments that we have in the Gulf of Mexico that are going to be, you know, pretty new in terms of what offshore what you know, I'll show it actually tackling some of those environments that provides this opportunity. Those are unique challenges right that need to be solved. And so that provides really great opportunities for Innovation creating blades that can withstand hurricane force winds, for example substructures that will go into the Super silty soils that are at the bottom of the Gulf of Mexico. You know, these are all opportunities to the point that   made to Create new innovations that number one hopefully will allow for. Out migration of these Innovations to other communities, right? So hopefully, you know as we're moving down this path if a new more Innovative blade is invented. That could be something that could be applied. In other geographies help improve the efficiencies maybe take advantage of lower wind speeds, which is something we need to be able to do here. Right and maybe expand the market opportunity here. So we see that as being a huge opportunity and I think related to that is making sure that while we're doing that sort of innovation we're thinking about this the current challenges without sure wind. I mean one of the things that immediately comes to mind when we started thinking about the You know read re-envisioning the design of the blades to address hurricanes is how do we make sure that they're recyclable? Right? So it's not something that we're having to deal with in the landfills. But it is there a way to actually, you know reuse or recycle the components of it and so incorporating those those pieces is gonna be important, you know, the way I look at it is the Innovation is driven by the needs of the community and the needs of the industry certainly if we're not thoughtful about You know if we're just looking at it through the industry lens and not looking at it through the community lens that can leave some pretty big gaps in terms of how you know that Innovation is being applied right to the point of the the recycling piece. If we're just looking at it strictly from the perspective of how can we make a better blade and not thinking about the end of life use of it? We're missing a big big component of this and so making sure that we're looking at it holistically as one and I think that's something that   and I were continuing to do as much as possible making sure we're looking at it from that big picture, but it's something that we will continue to do continue to do more of 
And The Innovation aspect Also regarding the landscape that we have a Louisiana not only like not as you know strong winds but not as frequent as usually but also the marine life the ecosystem the birds that   mentioned earlier like those are all new territories to discover. So the more opportunities we have here to attract towel and that comes to us to investigate and inquire what it looks like what could be like how we can mitigate and how can assess the environmental aspect at the same time to continue building and get Innovative, you know, so Innovation comes with new technology, but also with the research that we have at University to explore those opportunities and identify some of the benefits and not only the downside that it comes with Drilling and affecting the the whole underwater ecosystem. 
it now that's And I want to touch back on I think I'm some ideas that you guys both mentioned too. It's no Workforce Development is I think It's kind of the key. Like Community benefit that's been thinking about to this but I'm curious if you guys want to comment anymore on that or are thinking about any other impacts again, both positive and negative. To the like your communities, Louisiana, you know your local communities that you live in and then also Uno serves. 
Yeah, I mean I think on the workforce side, you know, the goal here would be to have more. What's the word more stable employment, right? I think one of the things that we've really struggled with as a region is kind of the the boom and bust cycles of oil and gas and our Workforce is very much followed that that cycle right whereas offshore wind may not be you know as 
a 
A financially great, you know on those boom Cycles, but it'll be more consistent. It'll be consistently stable. And I think that's one of the things we need to really focus in on and it gives it gives us an opportunity to focus in on stability of our economy and stability of our Workforce. 
And in addition to that I think we have an opportunity with the establishment of onshore wind turbines. I mean closer to shore not on short part of me state waters winterbise. Um, we finally have conversation around strengthening the grid understanding what it means to transmit to to send this energy back to people's houses and also probably long-term done not having such a heavy Reliance on the Miso and you know, it's it not being able being able to be in charge of our own energy and moving forward, you know, possibility will become independent. I know it's questionable, but it's also a big question mark for Louisiana as it's one of the highest use of energy in the United States how we rely less and less on a grade that could not be as reliable and we know if you know if If my soul is not up to speed and it requires five years to change policy, then it becomes a complicated for Louisiana to implement any changes right? So I think this allows us once again to have our own source of energy and become more independent as a state. 
that was kind of my next question was how You know from both a university and your own personal point of view, how are you seeing kind of this development in a great with kind of the current oil and natural gas industry. That's that's in place. 
Yeah, it's a great question. I think you know, it's it's from from our perspective. I think the opportunity to really kind of diversify is where we're seeing right kind of having additional sources that are either feeding into the Grid or powering a fuel like through green hydrogen. I think those are some of the pieces that we're seeing as being good opportunities to integrate into our current Energy Mix, you know there there we've had a conversations with energy providers in the region and they set it on various panels that I've watched them on, you know, they're getting pushed back from some of their companies that are looking to move to the region saying, you know, what are your, you know Green energy options. How can we actually how can you help us get to that zero and so it's an important economic driver in the region to make sure that we do have this option now do I think it's gonna be the sole source? No, I think it's gonna be a mix of various sources and you know if you See the work that's happening down in Port fourchon. You know, it's they see the opportunity to build offshore wind in addition to the only God's work and create some diversity there. 
And the University of New Orleans School of Engineering has historically prepared training Workforce for the offshore oil and gas industry and given the fact that we hear about a 80 plus they say 80% plus of skills are transferable. You know, we have the opportunity to continue support that industry in a bit different capacity, but on in the singular pathways 
Can you explain that a little more that like that idea of 80% of the skills or transportable? Is that the idea that like kind of what they're currently doing? And maybe also the infrastructure that's in place. The actual facilities can be transferred for optional one 
Yes, I can scratch the surface because as a non engineer probably don't have the technical piece and I'll ask   to add on to what I'm missing but given the fact that you know that there is still underwater work and similarly. What I've heard is the underwater work. Whereas similar skill set of what it requires for the offshore oil and gas industry above water. It's more electrical and that's where you know, we we're trying to add on Wayne Scholars and opportunities like that to enhance the electrical pieces and acquire were peer change some knowledge transferable knowledge between European countries who probably have done this for longer time. And this is what we learn from the Block Island wind farm that you know about underwater. There was majority Louisiana talent and then above water it was Germany from that mistake and I know alumna from you know actually worked on those installation and I'll let take it from there because he has been more familiar with these events. 
Yeah, no, absolutely. So yeah, we had a couple of alumni who are actually on the team that designed the first offshore when Farms Platforms in Rhode Island, which is pretty exciting. But yeah exactly what   said, 
No. 
think there's there's a lot of the structural engineering work that is very transferable from the oil and gas industry the even you know, the transmission lines, even though that's a little bit different that there are similarities there in terms of the taking the energy to Shore and then of course the integration into the grid piece. It's similar as well. So yeah, there's certainly a lot of Transferable skills. There's really all about you know, putting putting steel and water right as they say and and that that piece exists and looking forward, you know, we've gotten really good down here in the region at creating floating oil rigs, right? And so that's gonna be a tremendous opportunity for us to build on as the West Coast looks up floating offshore wind and some of the northeastern area start looking at that as well. So that's another area that I think we have some expertise to build around is that floating expertise? And that's particularly within our Naval architecture Marine Engineering Group. Excuse me. We have a lot of that expertise around creating floating platforms. 
the yeah, this is something that I thought about a lot that I really appreciate you guys perspective on because you think you've been thinking about this for years and very deeply with knowledgeable backgrounds of you know, it's been off for wind development is pitched partly for it's you know ability to create jobs, but I've wondered how much of those jobs are you gonna be, you know filled by local residents and how much is going to be imported? And so you guys are clearly thinking about this very nuanced of like even mentioning that you know, like above water was German but below water is Louisiana and thinking about how to kind of bridge that Gap going forward 
for sure, and I think you know we have we have some unique opportunities because of that expertise to kind of build on that train up our students that come to our engineering school at UNO or the technical colleges like a Nunez to connect with those companies and   mentioned the wind Scholars. And that's really what we're trying to do is get our students connected to those companies that have already done this work so they can get fully trained up and become those those Future Leaders. So we see us having a pretty strong Regional footprint here in terms of the the employees and and the the technicians and such being trained here in Southeast, Louisiana. Certainly, there's going to be an element of bringing in some expertise from the outside to build certain pieces of given that you know, Louisiana, I think the the stat  , you can correct me from wrong, I think boom Said that 27 I think was 27% of all us contracts and offshore wind went went to Louisiana companies which is you know, considering how small of a state we are. It's a pretty significant. Number and that was last year in 2023. So, you know, I think we have some opportunities to become. Truly truly a hub of innovation and leadership in this in this field. 
And despite the fact that it will be underwater and above water job opportunities. There is a myriad of activities around it. Right? So when you add when a developer comes to town put it that way there has there are some steps to take it right you first not only propose the development of farm or the business model, but you also communicate with the community community leaders you With policy regulatory Pace you engage with environmental assessment. So there is a myriad of jobs that we are well equipped to address when it comes to environmental Sciences as   mesh in the beginning expanding wind Scholars beyond the College of Engineering introducing the College of environmental Sciences, the College of Business School and addressing from all other parts is also job creation, right? I come from a background in hospitality and then Urban studies and then I end up doing offshore wind but all of my background is actually applicable. So even foresee, you know place where the school of Tourism could play a role into that given the fact that will be both on the water and big ship on the water that will serve those wind farms in the development of the wind farm, right? So it requires a Hospitality tourism team to actually serve those people who are on the boat, right? So that's a lot of indirect jobs. Not only that are work on technical aspect but also conducting qualitative research Community benefits agreement understanding if you know the project is not only ecologically correct, but also it is benefiting the community at large not only from direct income but also, you know from visuals from equatorism aspect and what does it mean for us as a state to own and have this wind turbines in the state water and federal waters. 
now I'm glad you mentioned that because I was one of the doctor questions. I wanted to ask you get very talking about capitalizing kind of on existing resources. You have there even in like tourism. Just want to kind of pulling that thread to see if there's any other kind of existing kind of resources or infrastructure that that you see this again being able to to utilize to impact and both positive and negative. 
Yeah, I mean, I think I think there's a lot of a lot of the resources that are used for the oil and gas industry now, you know a lot of those are and we've seen this from the industry side, you know a lot of these. Companies that were servicing on the guys are creating divisions and win so Keystone engineering which is a close partner of ours, you know, they're well again only guys from there. They're now starting to do some carbon capture. They've recently stood up another Renewables Division and you know, they they've been really instrumental in a lot of this this work, you know a place like poor Fusion which historically service oil and gas that's a really all they did. You know, they are not a Container Terminal. They're really just an energy Port then seeing this opportunity and then they're allocating. You know space and doing a build out and in fact the recently they announced that they're doing this prototype turbine with Golfland technology, which is another another one of our partners. So I think you know, there's a lot of Ki assets here. A lot of it is built around expertise.   mentioned it earlier. I mean a lot of our Uno faculty are very familiar with the Gulf of Mexico environment and how to build in it, you know, the Fisheries environments there. We recently met two researchers who have done work on whale populations in the Gulf for years and and we talked about offshore wind and we're going to get them tied in to this. This with this world and in the coming weeks. So there's a lot of this retooling that's going to happening. We're kind of Shifting this expertise over to this area kind of back to  's 80% point. 
Here, why is Louisiana different do you think why is you mentioned it before they the you you originally Louisiana as basically a leader in the hub and in our experience now talking with me people weaving it does seem different. Why do you think that's the case? 
Yeah, I mean that that's a great question. I don't you know, you kind of have to ask someone who to do is kind of out in the other states to really kind of weigh in on that. You know, I think from from my perspective and from hearing things when we went up to Rhode Island it it kind of seems to go back to that experience of just having that knowledge of how to build things in Ocean environments. It seems like it's something that certainly in the Northeast there isn't a lot of that expertise and so it's just you know, who can we get that actually knows how to deal with these conditions and build things here. And that seems to be something that we built a lot of experience around in south, Louisiana. how that came about is a great question that I don't know the answer to but but yeah, that's that's you know, one of the major things I've heard just that experience. 
I think it's different because back to history right existing infrastructure. We do have the economic benefit of understanding what it means to do the work underwater. Again from the technical aspect and ecosystem. We have shallow Waters, which is is different from what they have done in deep water. So historically a lot more offshore wind turbine have been developed in. Very deep Waters. So which makes them being not non-fixed bottom Waters, right? Oh wind turbine part of me. And then we yes, we have strong wind resources, which we have learned that in the past two years. They have been a change into the climate aspect and the stronger winds are occurring. We also have, you know, again larger Coastal area. So there is an opportunity to dive deeper and understanding what other leases and auction could happen in the golf towards the east side. So I think those those are all pro and saying like why Louisiana as well equipped to to be leading this industry, but there is a lot of knowledge on how living with the water as Louisiana more than any one probably in the Health is learning how to manage water day in and day out. We have Coastal restoration programs Coastal Management Programs management Retreat, you know a number of organizations that are working every single day figuring out like what does it mean if you know, we are already below sea level sea level and what does it mean for us to cope with water as we move forward and it could truly be a Trailblazer for the world as you know water prices increase and if these are the conditions that we're moving forward having those technical experiences and figuring out if you can make it work in the south of Louisiana. We're in the in the Gulf of Mexico. You probably could make it work anywhere. That's what 
Yeah, and I think   I think   nailed it right? I think Holden the the answer to why Louisiana is different is really that is this community lives off of the water right? Whether it's you know fishing whether it's you know, just tourism whatever it is like the connection to the water is pretty key and I think that that element of it allowed the development of this trust. Okay, we can we can continue to build on our relationship with the water and and it's probably why it's it's so unique and different and we have the skills that that not many other communities do 
Yeah, and we have proximity to the like highest demand center is right everything is kind of like tight and small in Louisiana. So proximity to New Orleans proximity to Baton Rouge which are the hubs for energy transmission. I think, you know that adds on to again the question of the transmission line and sending energy back to people's homes. 
And because of this is an outsider makes you wonder. you know because of that relationship that you mentioned that like the community has on the water and that Louisiana sinking and they you already you know doing these the largest environmental restoration projects ever attempted the versions. is the political environment different and To the capacity you can as again these are unshared ideas, you know, can you comment on one kind of like the different levels of politics that's involved in how it might be different in Louisiana than other places. 
yeah, and and certainly you know, 
Yeah. 
there's And again with it being unshared. I think there is a little bit of concern, you know with the new Governor's election. Obviously, you know John balladers when he was there was extremely supportive he put it put together climate task force and was doing a lot of work related to this. So there is a little bit of heartburn of how it's going to move forward. I think on the flip side of that one of the things that we've really seen is, you know, a lot of the Very influential people on this in the state who normally would you know, probably align most with our current governor have seen the opportunity, you know, they've seen the business opportunity and they've seen the impact to our communities. And so I think some of that has trickled to our political leaders some of our state senators and such who Probably and   and  's been cut on the policy side. So she's probably better suited to address some of this who probably in. Other states may have been very anti offshore wind. I think I've seen the the direct impact to their communities and as kind of helped moderate that as a as this becoming kind of a political football so to speak the hope is that keeps up. We feel like we have some good relationships with those groups. and so the hope is that that you know those economic opportunities continue and then those folks continue to be supportive. So I'm you know, I'm certainly a little bit concerned but I think overall I feel like we have a strong enough base across the state that supportive to where this is gonna this is gonna find some password. It may not be as clear as of a path as under the last Governor, but I think hopefully it'll still find some some good clear password, but I'll let   chime in on that because that's her area. Really? 
Yeah, I support  's opinion. And I I truly share the same thoughts or a little a little bit of concern but not much why because I'm thinking if we showcase that this is economically feasible and beneficial then we do have a buy-in and you know, we with a governor that is economically driven or in other words supportive of clean energy, maybe through carbon capture sequestration, maybe through hydrogen maybe through offshore wind. I think there is an understanding of that. How could this add on to our diversifying economy as long as The language goes along that we are adding on and not transitioning. I think we're fine. We have to understand that this is a historical location that has been for decades 50 plus years relying so much economically on oil and gas is one of the largest Industries so carefully how we Elaborate that language and how we do business. It's crucial. I you know, we went in the past with legislature from North Carolina conservative legislative who we would have never thought that would be an ally came to Baton Rouge and spoke to our legislator Pride prior to this Administration and really given us numbers and compelling data on how the cost of offshore wind, you know over goes over where like it's much more economically beneficial than the cost of oil and gas. So I think as long as numbers can speak facts and we have data showcasing how this Edition could benefit us as a state. I think there will be support and you know with Governor   said has really worked very hard to create climate action plan and climate task force and then they even prior like in December or like late December early January they created New one which is called Louisiana priority climate action plan taking upon a new initiatives and adding on to existing one and understanding where we heading with the federal support and Ira and build back better. So I think like the blueprint has been established where I think there's a good You know wood forces that are leading this initiative and I don't foresee much of an objection if not a bit of a delay, but I think will still moving forward. 
if I want to check with bill because I'm kind of really Loosely followed her first three questions because it's just these are really cool perspectives. Do you have any questions or are you getting what you need will? 
Nothing things are looking good on my end. It's it's kind of fascinating throughout this process how Even when you come at it with with from different areas of subject matter expertise are different perspectives. There's a lot of commonalities in the themes of what you're talking about. Even when you talk to someone who you know is completely focused on the environmental side or you know, the industry developer side. It is interesting how Central some of the components are here, but I don't have anything dangling Holden. 
That's great. That means we talk to each other often time. 
Yes, yes. 
We collaborate more. 
Yeah. 
and that means that we're getting closer to an accurate representation of the entire stakeholder perspective or I mean stakeholders aren't a monolith obviously, but the things that people are thinking about broadly 
Yeah, the thing the thing that that we always say is if we're not marrying the needs of the community and Industry. We're not doing our job, right? So it's really important for us to make sure that we understand their needs and our building programs that are supporting that and so so well, that's good to hear. That's good to hear that you're here hearing similar things. 
Yeah, absolutely. 
our favorite thing is sometimes when we hear kind of the same thing said from like way different perspectives and said differently, but like they're actually saying the same 
At there there was one day we did we 
thing so, 
did back-to-back interviews with an environmental NGO and then like a Port Authority developer type person and obviously diametrically pose on paper. 
Yeah. 
We're saying very very similar things in very different language, which is 
Oh, that's fascinating. 
is fascinating. 
At this point in the interview, we usually open it back up to you guys to see if you have any other General thoughts about offshore wind the good the bad things. You don't know that you have an ad space to share yet or maybe you guys feel like you've been comprehensive but this is kind of like the open-ended catch-all space if you have anything else 
Yeah, I think that I mean I'm sure you know, if you talk to some of the other stakeholders you probably heard good deal about the use of green hydrogen as a fuel. You know, that that is something that we're our researchers are looking at. We have a specific use in the shipping in the maritime industry that we're looking at and so that'll be an interesting thing to see but you know, I think thinking about what's unknown will to your point of what don't we know is how viable that truly will be as a fuel. So I think you know, that's another you know, R&D wise and Innovation wise a really great opportunity for us to dig in and another place where Southeast Louisiana. It can be a leader given that we already are producing, you know, lots of CO2 intensive gray hydrogen for some of our industrial Corridor work, but you know, there are we don't need to Nestle get into all this but there's unique challenges for you know, journeying hydrogen storing and shipping given how Small the molecule it is and you know, we could spend a lot of time talking about that. But I think you know that's gonna be one of the things that I am very curious to see how that Translates to commercial use so that's definitely an unknown in my book. 
For me, it's the opportunity of a renewable standard portfolio. So Louisiana doesn't have an renewable energy standard portfolio and I say renewable because that encompasses to what   says hydrogen CCS or other forms of collecting clean energy solar and you know, if we get to the point of by the end of this year or at some point hopefully to have that portfolio standard portfolio in place, then it will solve a lot of our Equity problems as well. Right? So one thing that we try and at least to lead this initiatives with Equity mind and inclusion and make sure that our communities are heard and use their traditional knowledge that will apply so that to me. Own given that the community benefit agreement have not been Incorporated part of the leases per buoyam. There was not discovered significant environmental issues. So which is good news is good news that we're not significantly threatening the environment to install them at the same time. We have advocated for actually and implementable action for Community benefits. You know, it's either Broadband for the communities that live in the area or provide them of some sort of assets including maybe, you know, like parks and schools and a lot of things. So this is the unknown for me and it moving forward. I probably would love for our state and federal waters to be a little bit more considerative of that what you know, how can we make our community stay in? In the format where sea level is rising, Louisiana is constantly a threat for land loss. What what incentives do we give our to community to our communities and our new generation to stay and invest here and keep building. So I think those those are the two aspects that I keep thinking every day. 
Holden do you have anything you're thinking? 
um, well, I guess the only honest follow up to that or do you see ways that basically that Management can help with that or with any of the other ways. Maybe there's multiple levels here, but you know like Maybe the level that we're in and Noah is one one way, you know is there is there anything you would like to see from us? And then you know that we could potentially that you want us consider or no one to consider from the federal side and then also on the the state and local side. To assist those things. 
It's a great question. Collecting data as you do and having accurate information. It is helping us to share the story. So Distributing the right type of information one thing we've learned early on in 2021-2022 navigating the possibility of offshore winning. Louisiana was a lot of misinformation and those conversations still happening   and I was just probably speaking about that recently. Like a lot of question marks are happening behind the closed doors oftentimes. We made with our qualation collaborators and everybody's on the same page, right? 
I think 
implement or install wind turbines in the Gulf of Mexico and pro renew. and But there's a lot of misinformation and hesitancy out there that it's just not happening in our cohort of networking because we are the where we don't share the same thoughts. So I think having collecting data like you do and having digestible information. Now I'm using this word for lack of a better word, but I don't want to sound like I don't want to hurt anyone's feelings but like not using too much of a technically words. It's really helpful. If you want to tell the stories to the communities, you know use as as more simple knowledge as possible, right? So when when there is too much technicality people check out and they get lost and they no longer know how to answer to that. So having that information is helpful you work with Community leaders as you always. Do, you know, like will I think you had a correct me from wrong with I think you had a great time connecting with leaders and Louisiana and you know kind of like use that there's an opportunity as You to pass along that scientific data and you know visuals images. So the information you share not only reaches people that are in executive roles, but also people on the ground who actually do this work day in and day out. 
it yeah. 
yeah,  , I think that's a great point and you know the Point about data actually reminds me of a conversation. We had  . You may remember this from our first round table not the one we just had with the wind week about coordination of the data in the ocean that exists amongst like, you know, DOD shipping and and using and kind of like creating a uniform system so that Developers could have like a clear sense of where would be the best locations to to develop. I don't know if Noah has access to that or or can help compile some of that and maybe you already do. I don't know. I'm actually not this is this I'm getting into dangerous territory because I'm not super familiar with this but I've I remember there was a discussion At the first round table about the need to kind of coordinate all those different data elements and maybe   can correct me if I'm Miss Miss remembering some of this but remember there was that discussion right,  . 
Yeah, yes. Totally. I think this has been elaborated for for as long as somebody comes in if a new project and we use so much technicality that we just get lost in this information and we no longer know how to collaborate contribute or apply the data. So I think you're absolutely shipping. I I heard that during that meeting but also similar simultaneously another groups saying this is too complex, you know, make it make sense make it easy not easy, but Make it Make it for us to understand where we can actually apply this so.  
