Of ecosystem status report for for when development there, but I think it's also would be really relevant to 
Okay. 
hear about. The you know work in lessons learned from Alaska and the east coast and other areas. So let's let's start with you know, 
Yeah. 
kind of we'll probably start narrow and then kind of move. D out, but for You know offshore wind development and the Gulf of Mexico and thinking about what are the potential impacts to marine mammals that you know that you're for seeing that we need to be. How will marine mammals potentially be impacted by offshore wind development both construction and operation? 
so, um, yeah, the Gulf of Mexico is a pretty busy Place lots of activities especially industrial activities in the Gulf of Mexico and so wind energy adds yet another Dynamic to this, you know area of multiple stressors, um wind energy to me though is not as particularly concerning as for instance oil and gas development obviously for you know reasons that you know, I probably don't have to get into too much but the Deepwater Horizon is lesserative of one of those concerns, but also just the ongoing you know ongoing leaks and produce water all that stuff that comes with oil and gas development, um wind energy with respect to marine mammals a really, you know, there's so many variables that affect the impact, you know that that way into the what the potential effects are and those include things like where What kind of structures? 
that's 
How many structures how big of an area you know? Sensitivity of the habitat that you're putting it in all of those things. So for instance, you know on the East Coast most of the wind energy that's been contemplated so far is anchored, you know. on a polls or jacket structures require pile driving and well site selection to make sure that you're putting it in good solid ground and and then the construction which involves a lot of pile driving and where Marie memos are very sensitive. And especially to sounds at very low frequency, which pile driving does. emit sound at very low frequency, which is particularly sensitive to things like Baleen whales And we don't have a lot of baleen whales in the Gulf of Mexico. majored we would like to reduce as much as possible any impacts to that species because of its small size. it's vulnerability to the types of sounds that. pile driving would create 
This is the brightest. 
my understanding. Yeah, my understanding is that most of the wind energy platforms that are you know proposed for the win for the Gulf of Mexico are going to be floating wind. Um, and so floating wind presumably would not have those kind of construction related acoustic impacts, but they would still have a lot of vessels around vessels create the same kind of noise this kind of low frequency, you know. Noise that you know the colors just turn away especially if they're in one area. They're in this kind of dynamic positioning mode and and it emits the frequency sound which you know, we don't know a lot about how Marie memos respond to Noah to to ships, but we but we do know they don't always avoid them, unfortunately, and so, um They they're this sound that is produced by vessels. could be masking biologically important sounds so kind of like think about when you have somebody, you know grinding away at on a truck outside your door and you're trying to talk to somebody on the phone. Everybody's voice gets elevated you get a little bit more tense. I'm trying not to anthropomorphize, but we do know that stress levels Court as evidenced by cortisol. a concentrations in the blood you get elevated when there is this need to Up their game in order to be heard or to find Credit prey. Or avoid Predators. So yeah, so vessel traffic. And then the possibility of vessel strikes so that that's one story of The Vessel noise is most important again for Baleen whales again only one species that is resident to the Gulf of Mexico. So, you know, okay, we're kind of all the other species in the golf killer whales bonus dolphins friends dolphins they have a different hearing frequency sensitivity. So they are less affected by those low grumblings of propellers. but they but they are affected by things like vessel strikes and we know that they they're attracted to certain types of platforms because there's prey species around them. And if there's a lot of vessel traffic around these platforms then you know, it does increase the potential. for vessel strikes of other types of marine mammals so that's my main concerns about wind energy is just Sound if there's going to be kind of construction there might be State, you know in the future State proposed. When Farms mostly what I'd be deal with is actions that have been proposed by the Bureau of ocean Energy Management, which are three miles off. So and my agency doesn't necessarily get too involved in state activities because we have more of a role in. Federal agency actions Just leave it at that. Um. but yeah, so so that's yeah increase vessel traffic. increase sound increased potential for vessel strikes and then there's a lot of things that we don't know about. So there could be. some changes to Windex wind water interactions Which could affect primary productivity these are things that the national academies looking at in terms of the Southern New England area? and other areas, but Atlantic cold pool, the Gulf of Mexico is very well studied environment, but there's a lot of things that we still don't know about the loop current and how climate changes affecting the loop current and so other things that get in there and kind of affect the wave and wind patterns that drive processes in the Gulf of Mexico could affect primary productivity in the long run and so you have that trickle effect down to these top predators like Marie mamos. 
And no question. I had that I just just genuinely curious and don't know much about because it because you mentioned that you know, the the issue of noises being a really big one of four construction and then also thistle traffic. do You do, you know anything about potential, you know, the operation noise of wind turbines and the effects that that might have. Is there been any research on that or do you have any is it just something that we don't know and we'll have to find out or is it? Or is it something that you? 
Um generally based on studies from Europe. Because of course, we don't have a lot of wind terms when turbines here in the US. So a lot of what we think or project about potential effects comes from European wind farms. And other wind farms around the world. the operational noise appears to be at decimal level that is below. the threshold for Behavioral disturbance definitely below the threshold for injury or mortality. so from an acoustic perspective. uh, you know These smaller wind farms do not appear to put out a sound level that is concerning. but you know, like everything you've got cumulative effects and the cumulative effects of the vessel traffic and the operational noise from the wind farms and vessels fishing vessels that might be attracted to these platforms because there's Fish swimming around and creating, you know little mini artificial reefs. Um, it introduces more sound into the environment that That you know start to build up. And so it's these cumulative effects that are really hard for us to tease out. There's some you know studies that are being done on the population consequences of multiple stressors or pecans that several my several colleagues of mine are working on. to try to understand the individual effects and then when they all come together, what are those synergistic effects of all of these potential stressors? Um, so that's one aspect of it, but I have to say that you know, like I've done some work also in my past on magnetic disturbance. And so that's another potential. Um Avenue for impacts is just kind of this electrical or magnetic disturbance that could occur with the operation of these wind farms again, not a lot of work done in that area but something to look at and I think all of these things beg the question of what is the environment like now and how will the environment change as a result of? this activity so the Gulf of Mexico well studied in some respects, but I have to say when I was looking for information on. Soundscapes and Ambient sound levels. Um, those Studies have only started to be conducted. And so, you know, we don't know what the soundscape of the Gulf of Mexico was 10 years ago 20 years ago 50 years ago. And so when you start adding all of these layers of industrial activities on top of each other, um, how does that Change that landscape in. Any of these various ways. These are the kinds of things that we really need to understand and be prepared to. measure before we start putting wind wind energy into the Gulf of Mexico or adding any other industrial activity. You know oil and gas was thrown in there without much thought about the Baseline. You know, we just said let's find it. Let's get it. But we didn't know much about. The population Marie mammals before oil and gas started and we didn't know much about Acoustics. We didn't even know Acoustics was an issue probably back then. So, you know the more we learn the more we realize that we need to. be comprehensive in our measurements and our data collection of what the existing environment looks like now so that we can understand how that environment has changed as a result of any number of these activities being added. 
if I see the dig into that because I think that's really what what we're looking for is what are these? You know, if you're an omniscient manager, what are the things that you would want to see measured and understood kind of before? Before during after you know when development. 
yeah, so I'd have to say that even though the golf is so industrialized. It is probably one of the least studied with respect to marine mammals. In terms of regular surveys. So for instance in in on the East Coast. There wasn't a lot done before about 2011 but around 2011 there started to be some very regular surveys of Marie mammals. Um Because of concerns about right whales because of concerns about other species. large whales and even Smaller species so and see birds sea turtles the whole, you know kind of protected species complex. So the Bureau of ocean Energy Management invested some funds into Baseline studies. To try to understand this there's all these you know questions about what scale do you want to do these studies at um a scale of the of the of the wind platform the scale of the Wind Farm or the scale of the entire region? um but in the Gulf of Mexico the there have not been similar Investments. Let's just say regular investments in understanding. The abundance distribution of Marie mammals there were certainly some studies that were done. after the Deepwater Horizon, but you would think that those studies would have continued and they haven't and we've had lots of conversations with Bureau which ocean energy management, but so it's like Who's responsible? Um Then remember people for counting how many animals are out there with not a lot of funding to back that up or the the activities of these Industrial. You know industrial activities the the permitting agencies. Um ocean energy the shipping, you know who permits shipping nobody really permanent shipping. So there's a lot of questions about who's responsible for. Understanding the environment when you add all these stressors on. and you know God love the American people they spoke up from Marie memos by passing them Remo protection act which was a very strongly supported by partisan act 50 years ago. But a lot of the mandates of the remnable protection act are unfunded or underfunded and so we do rely on Partnerships with other agencies to collect the kind of information that we need to understand what the impacts are of various activities on marine mammals, so Yeah, so in the Gulf of Mexico, unfortunately. It's a big place. It's expensive. There's 20 some odd species of marine mammals in the Gulf of Mexico. A lot of them are offshore. So you have to get in a ship which is expensive and there's not a lot of ships that can go out and do these kind of surveys. So you gotta get ship time. You got to get ship money. You got to put away the resources. You got to put the staff out there and then you got to do a comprehensive survey, which also involves, you know, actually. Circling around animals getting some 
Okay. 
samples from them understanding their genetic structure the stock structure. The demography and then getting close enough to be able to do species ID. Some of the marine mammals are very cryptic. We can't tell them apart. Pantopical spotted Dolphins Atlantic spotted Dolphins boy. They look very similar unless you get really close to them or get a genetic sample we have Many many I could say how many speed stocks of bass sound and Estuary Dolphins. We have Coastal Dolphins. We have offshore Dolphins. They all look the same from the untrained eye, um, even to the train guy. Some of them are just a little bit bigger the offshore species bigger than the ensure and and they sent a nursery stocks. um 
so 
But we do know we are learning that each of these is their own kind of a little pocket of population. And so um We don't know the degree to which they intermingle. We don't know whether stocks that are on the western side of the Gulf of Mexico intermingle with stocks on the Eastern side in the offshore region. So the stock structure issues important and the reason why it's important. is because if you have just one big mixing bowl of say spotted dolphins Um and you have an activity that harms those dolphins. Uh, the bigger the population size the better they can rebound right? But if they're all separated into individual stocks and you're hammering One stock exclusively or particularly with one activity. their ability to recover from that activity may not be as it may not be as resilient as A bigger population and that's the problem that we have with all these, you know, small stocks of bundles dolphins and Nearshore Waters. And so yeah, so we don't know a lot about Marie memos in the Gulf of Mexico, even though there's been a lot of activities in the golfer many many years and and we and there's just not enough funding to go out there and study them all. Um, and so we look to new technologies to try to do that. technologies that keep people safer, you know instead of flying planes with a team of people and you know in day-to-day we might fly unmanned aircraft. We might fly a pilot with just a recorder device. With the ships, we might deploy underwater drones gliders. We might install deploy passive acoustic monitors. To listen for Marie memos and we're learning a lot more about their calls. If you could imagine the first, you know kind of hydrophone that was dropped in the water. We heard all kinds of stuff. We couldn't even differentiate, you know snapping fish from you know Dolphins. So now we've learned a lot more about their calls we can say hey we're listening to this. We don't see this animal, but we hear them and it must be a dolphin or a rice as well or you know sperm whale or whatever. so, um Yeah, but those initial studies they had to kind of be able to link those, you know calls with the species in the area. So, um So for some species that that's been well established for other species. There's a complex of dolphins that we just can't tell apart from acoustic monitor. IES, so yeah. 
so so ones like the most kind of the most important critical thing is just to have Baseline. population information to understand what the impacts could be you said 
Yeah. 
it's the meta population Dynamics are difficult, but are really important understand that and now you mentioned before that, you know, understanding soundscape in the impacts of sound it's it's such a new and novel thing but that could be that's another really important area like on to understand and monitor. 
there's a lot of activities that produce sound and shipping comes, you know, right to the top and so we're starting to understand the sounds that are made by different types of ships so that we can say, you know, hey, these big container ships might be a little bit more in fact thoughtful than appreciate a****** or you know, Whatever, but we do know. That seismic activity in the Gulf of Mexico, which is associated with oil and gas exploration. Is a penetrates throughout the gulf and has made the Gulf of Mexico one of the loudest of all of the ocean basins in the world. so sometimes we can't hear what's going on because of all that noise. Right. So we've heard Rice's whales over here in the Eastern Gulf. And we've seen them and that's their kind of we've described that as a core habitat, but over in the western Gulf, we do pick up their calls. But not as frequently and why is that is that because they're not over there or is that because it's so freaking loud over there that we can't hear them. So these are the kinds of things that we haven't really understood yet. 
I know I know you might be happened. with the leaves in I want to check in with will if we're kind of moving and that pieces that you need. 
you know, you've been pretty confident, which is nice. I think you subverted the structure of our interview by kind of skipping ahead on your answers, which is great. So yeah, you have a lot of what I need. The one thing that I want to ask about that you kind of touched on so obviously I think what's that top of mind is potential stressors or cumulative effects these marine mammals you did touch on some potential positive benefits to Offshore wind in the form of like suitable habitat or feeding grounds are those the primary positive ecosystem Services you would derive for marine mammals or other things that you think about as well? 
So there's I put those kind of potential benefits in two different categories. One is the actual benefits of the activity itself, which is like plunking a platform and having it, you know attract. 
right 
Either either price species or the species that 
on so kind of increasing the abundance. of animals in the Gulf of Mexico because you have more substrate for them to grow on and find pray. That definitely could be a benefit. We certainly see in Europe that seals that have been tagged kind of go from platform platform platform platform platform. They find them as like little feeding stations. And so but there's no pets in the in the Gulf of Mexico. So how does that relate to cetaceans will cetaceans also find them to be good feeding ground. I don't know how much has been done on. The abundance of dolphins around or other citations around or the gas platforms. but but when wind energy platforms might be very different. There's a lot of pollution around oil and gas platforms. Maybe Dolphins just avoid them because they're not really great places to hang out but wind energy might be a cleaner platform without spewing. Plastic and produced water and you know a lot of activity around it. They might be quieter nicer places to hang out with a lot of prey species. So that could be a benefit for citations. That's that's something that remains to be seen. um the other benefit I suppose which is kind of in this other category is Increased studies of remamals, I mean if you have activities it's kind of like you've got to figure out what's there before you start the activity and so the advantage of that is that we're learning more just like we did in the east coast. We know a lot more a lot more about Marie Mamel just reducing abundance, um calling Behavior migratory patterns movements based on you know, in reaction to climate change and other stressors because of the interest in wind energy development. So to me that is a benefit it's it's not you know, like, you know, Direct benefit of the platform itself, but it is a direct benefit of the interest in understanding the environment because of that activity. And and because it has to be permitted and you have the National Environmental Policy Act. You have to go through these environmental assessments and environmental reviews and because shipping for instance is not permitted in the same way. We never did that for shipping. We never did that for maybe some of the other activities, um, and everybody's already written off oil and gas to say, you know, well, it's been there for 50 years. What's a big deal, right, you know, like we don't have to do any more studies. I already know that we're only gases what it is, but now you put this new activity this new activity that needs to be permitted. We need to stop. understand the studies try to understand what the impacts of that new activity is on top of everything else. So yeah, so that I think I I see that as a possible benefit or certainly is some signs that they're is more interest in studying Ray memos and sea turtles and sea birds and other species fish because of the potential for wind energy development. 
On us about you know. It's like those. We're gonna be studying these and mentioned in the things to measure. You were so much in management from both the private and public side. And can you what management things are you thinking out that could be done that we should be thinking about at this stage for the Gulf of Mexico to mitigate some of these impacts. 
Um from a management perspective, I would say good information good information dissemination of information is key good information. There's a lot of misinformation campaigns out there. and people are concerned about what's going on in the ocean and and as managers, it's our responsibility to be very transparent about what we know and what we don't know. And and to communicate that in a very transparent way through whatever vehicles that we can and so, you know, the the development of these task forces where you get public private Industries together Regional organizations, like the Gulf of Mexico Alliance. All the various activities, you know represented industrial activities represented fishing shipping aquaculture. Oil and gas whatever get them all in there and talk through all of this stuff and be very transparent about what we know and what we don't know and incorporate that uncertainty into our management actions and our mitigation, and so it's very important to have The ability to mitigate what we think is going to be harmful. And so without a lot of good information. We might over mitigate a little bit. Um, and that's precautionary. That's what it's all about. And until we start to learn more about whether that mitigation is effective. Is it not enough? Is it too much? Is it taking us down the wrong road? Perhaps we need to try other things. Um, can we piggyback? Are observing systems so that we are taking full advantage of all eyes out on the water whether it's from oil a gas platforms, whether it's from fishermen, whether it's from recreational vessels, whether it's from, you know, independent platforms that are out there. We've got to capitalize on as many different sources of information as we can get. and work with our partners across across the border across States across agencies and and engage ngos in this. in this 
get out the right kind of information and you know misinformation is really really harmful because once it starts it starts to spiral out of control and we've seen that on the East Coast with the with this Association of mass trainings of humpback whales with wind energy development, which is ludicrous. It's really it's ludicrous because number one There wasn't even any construction going on and the site surveys that also produce sound that they were kind of pointing their fingers at work really happening. And there was other issues that were more important that we're being overlooked that were actually being in the cause of these strands. And so but you know people latch on to something that they don't like and they're ready to blame anything that they see that's wrong with the environment on that thing that they don't like and that's where misinformation really bites us. So we need to be open and involving all various. interests Uh, and you know, I used to work with fishermen and when you engage them in a problem boy, they just like to they just like to help you solve it. You know, they're out there on the water. They're on the water all the time. They know that area better than any scientist. And so they are traditional knowledge holders, you know, the people that run the Us, you know transport vessels, they're out there every day all day long their traditional knowledge holders, you know, they are valuable sources of information scalars. Racial vessels, you know Charter vessels. All together and you know tap what we can. Learn about environment because we're all going to see different deal. Help you see what we touch but we're not going to see the whole until you guys figure out how to make models help the whole the whole elephant 
